

===== PAGE 1 =====

  
Microlearning in the  
Mining Industry 
A partnership between Signal Gold, Training Works, Agnico Eagle 
Mining, and Mining Industry Human Resources Council 
Evaluation 
 


===== PAGE 2 =====

This report was produced as part of a project funded by the Future 
Skills Centre (FSC) , with financial support from the Government of 
Canada’s Future Skills Program.  
FSC is a forward-thinking centre for research and collaboration 
dedicated to preparing Canadians for employment success. We 
believe Canadians should feel confident about the skills they have to 
succeed in a changing workforce. As a pan-Canadian community, 
we are collaborating to rigorously identify, test, measure, and share 
innovative approaches to assessing and developing the skills 
Canadians need to thrive in the days and years ahead.  The Future 
Skills Centre was founded by a consortium whose members are 
Toronto Metropolitan University, Blueprint ADE, and The Conference 
Board of Canada
The opinions and interpretations in this publication are those of the 
author(s) and do not necessarily reflect those of the Future Skills 
Centre or the Government of Canada. 


===== PAGE 3 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 2  
Evaluation of the Microlearning in the Mining Industry was completed by: 
 
Dig Insights 
372 Bay St. 16th Floor, 
Toronto, ON 
M5H 2W9  

===== PAGE 4 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 3  
AGNICO –  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
 
Background  
 
 
Today’s workplace is experiencing a shift in its learning environment. The operational 
reality of many industries limit the amount of time an employee can leave to train. 
Additionally, today’s employees need to be “adaptable learners” and they must be able  
to react very quickly to disruption and change , therefore learning must occur in a 
continuous, effective manner  that focuses on behaviour change . The concept of short 
learning (microlearning), in line of work, either on a mobile phone or tablet  was 
hypothesized to be an answer to these modern organizational learning challenges.  
 
To this end, Signal Gold (formerly Anaconda Mining), Agnico Eagle Mines, Training 
Works, and the Mining Industry Human Resources Council (MiHR) partnered to create 
a comprehensive  workplace based microlearning delivery model th at was piloted and 
evaluated on over 200 employees within two mining operations (Agnico Eagle Mines -
Nunavut, Signal Gold- Newfoundland and Labrador). The key deliverables of this project 
included: 
• Creation of an industry driven micro-learning delivery model. 
• Creation of a microlearning program that w as be built around the delivery model 
directed at topics of behaviour-based safety and communication. 
• Delivery of a micro-learning program within Signal Gold and Agnico Eagle Mines. 
• Creation of a nationally recognized mining micro-credential.  
• Creation and implementation of a comprehensive ROI evaluation on the bottom-
line impacts of micro-learning. 
 
Research on micro-learning model deployment within the mining industry is relevant to 
all industry stakeholders, and the research undertaken in this project, and its subsequent 
results, will serve as a starting point for the application of workplace based microlearning 
models. Effective deployment of this workplace model will not only help organizations  
and their people realize their intended objectives but also increase demand driven access 
to knowledge and skills  and optimize application of these skills in the workplace. The 
speed and effectiveness with which skills development can be deployed in the future will 
be critical to the safe and productive operation of all organizations .  The research 
contained within this document will provide a blueprint for a workplace based 
microlearning model that will enhance the ability of industries, employers , and 
policymakers, to make the right choices and apply the right technological options  to 
ensure safe, effective skills deployment.  
 
  

===== PAGE 5 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 4  
Evaluation Context  
 
Throughout the implementation of the microlearning process, evidence of its 
effectiveness and outcomes achieved were  monitored throughout. A pre -survey was 
administered to all participants at the onset to achieve a base level on key metrics (early 
2021). Once microlearning was launched , participant engagement and suc cess of 
learning was tracked using individual assessments that were completed as a part of the 
training (ongoing for 6- month period). Similar to the pre survey, this was given to both 
the control and experimental groups to identify changes in learning at this stage.  Finally, 
a post-survey was administered to the two groups after the 6 -month training to capture 
learnings (August 2022).   
 
In order to determine the impact of the program on the organization and to triangulate 
findings, interviews with coaches/mentors and organizational leaders were conducted 
at the mid- point of microlearning (May/June 2022) and upon completion (September 
2022). 
 
Additionally, evidence for the effectiveness of the training was captured through 
administrative data in order to track changes in key performance indicators (e.g., number 
of incidences, profit; completed throughout the process).  
 
Finally, a six -month follow-up survey was implemented 6 -months after the training has 
occurred in order to determine long term impact and to further test the appropriateness 
of the training. 
 
Key Findings  
 
Relevance  
This Microlearning model was found to be relevant to the needs of the organization. The 
training model allowed for f lexible program delivery and did not require removing  
workers from the front-line to attend training. In addition, because it was delivered in the 
line of work application of behaviour change was highly optimized. The microlearnin g 
training program itself also provided a beha viour-based approach to health and safety, 
which helped increase employee engagement, knowledge and behaviour change on this 
important matter. 
 
This model, as evidenced by the quantitative data found later in this report, was highly 
effective in targeting skills gaps and behaviour change in the participants  While seen as 
highly relevant to the organization, employees requested that the microlearnig be 
targeted with more real life scenarios  specific to their position/team It was indicated that 
this  would help them  to better comprehend  how the behavioural skills covered in 
microlearning can be applied in their day- to-day job and continue to increase behaviour 
change.  
  

===== PAGE 6 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 5  
Design and Delivery  
It was found that the design of microlearning model fit with the operational reality of the 
industry. Those participants with less experience  in the mining industry  were able to 
gather more takeaways and expressed greater attention and engagement with 
microlearning.  
 
The delivery model of microlearning allowed it to be integrated into the existing pre-shift 
meetings, which made it a routine and daily occurrence for employees and coaches. 
Additionally, the concept of short training videos was appealing for capturing the 
attention and interest of employees. Although, it was noted that the limited time in pre -
shift meetings, made it difficult to have an effective and engaging discussion following 
the training videos, which is something that coaches would like to have more of.   
 
Microlearning was designed to ensure that mining employees receive the right training 
to do their job on a continuous basis, which the program successfully achieved. Although, 
optimizing the design and delivery to ensure it can be delivered, while meeting the needs 
of the organization is critical to enhancing effectiveness.  
 
Outcomes  
Employees completed ten modules in the microlearning program: active listening, 
mindfulness, workload management, decision making, vigilance, effective inquiry, 
closed loop communication, assertiveness, team building, and coaching.  
 
It was found that microlearning was successful in increasing behaviours across all t en 
competencies covered in the program at Agnico. Behavioural change has led to 
heightened awareness for safety -based practices and behaviours, helping the 
organization to develop a prevention focused approach to workplace health and safety.  
 
In addition to behavioural change, microlearning provided the opportunity for increased 
engagement between employees and coaches, generating more conversation on the 
importance of health and safety across the organization. Furthermore, employees 
gained the confidence and communication skills to speak up about health and safety 
matters to other employees and their supervisors.  
 
While it is too early to fully assess the impact of microlearning on organizational safety 
statistics, injury, and incident rates up until September 2022 suggest that the process 
plant has experienced a downwards trend. The process plant experienced a decline in 
incidents and injuries, 27% and 29% YoY from 2021, respectively. With a 39% increase in 
reported near misses, it is evident that the program has brought a proactive approach and 
made health and safety top of mind across the organization.  
 
ROI 
Microlearning resulted  in employer savings of approximately $294,252.41. The 
complete ROI background and calculation can be found on p.31.  
 

===== PAGE 7 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 6  
Recommendations  
As Training Works looks to implement microlearning across other departments within 
Agnico and externally, it is important to leverage the feedback from this pilot phase to 
enhance the relevance and effectiveness of the program. Looking forward, it is 
recommended to consider the following: 
 
Implement microlearning specific training sessions 
 
Employees and Coaches found the microlearning model engaging during their toolbox 
talks however felt that there wasn't enough time to fully discuss the topics. They also felt 
introducing new topics via video daily was too frequent. While consistent health and 
safety trainings are  important, there is opportunity to make for a better exper ience for 
employees and coaches. It is recommended to alter the frequency of  video based  
trainings and supplement them with additional forms of microlearning (job aids, 
checklists, guided discussions etc.). In addition an increase in the amount of time allotted 
for microlearning trainings to allow for discussion is recommended. 
 
Target those new/less experienced to the workforce/industry 
 
Microlearning is best suited and leveraged as daily reminders to commute knowledge 
into behaviour as opposed to teaching  brand new skills. Ensuring that employees 
understand the intent and outcomes of the microlearning model will help with learner 
engagement moving forwards. The behaviour -based approach of microlearning was 
found to be effective .  Those experienced in the i ndustry have received behavioura -
based skills trainings in the past and considered the content of microlearning to be 
repetitive.  While microlearning provided them with limited new learnings, it did serve as 
a reminder to the importance of behavioura -based skills in creating a safe workplace. 
Greater attention should be paid to onboarding employees to the purpose of 
microlearning to ensure their expectations align with the model delivery.  
 
Find new ways to engage more experienced workers  
 
It is important to investigate ways to engage more experienced workers, as a behaviour-
based training remains highly important and relevant to the industry. With many 
incidents and injuries occurring as a result of an experienced worker becoming 
complacent, alternative delivery models may pique their interest  and heighten 
engagement with this audience.  
 
Use human actors/actresses to elevate professionalism  
 
While it didn’t take away from the learnings of  microlearning, the use of  animation 
impeded on the appeal and relevance. Mentors and coaches noted that some employees 
were less attentive to the videos because of the type of animation utilized. 
Consequently, it is recommended to utilize human actors/actresses in the microlearning 

===== PAGE 8 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 7  
training videos to elevate professionalism and broaden the appeal for industrial works of 
all ages and skill levels.   
 
Include industry examples to enhance relevance    
 
As not all microlearning training videos are relevant to all positions, and some employees 
lacked the abilit y to make the connection between the competencies covered in the 
training and their day -to-day job in mining. To further the impact of microlearning, it is 
recommended to include more job-specific examples in the training videos and follow-up 
discussions. This would help to demonstrate how the behaviours covered in 
microlearning can be applied in the workplace as safety prevention tactics. 
 
While the above recommendations would further the effectiveness of microlearning, it 
was acknowledged to be impactful in its pilot phase with the organization and is seen as 
a scalable program within and beyond the mining industry.  
 
Conclusion  
Overall, the pilot phase of microlearning completed at Agnico was found to be successful 
in achieving the outputs and immediate outcomes outlined in the Theory of Change. By 
taking the recommendations provided into consideration, there is opportunity to 
optimize and enhance the effectiveness of microlearning  to scale it across other 
organizations.  
  

===== PAGE 9 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 8  
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
AGNICO  - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ....................................................................................................... 3 
PROJECT CONTEXT .............................................................................................................................. 9 
TRAINING WORKS ............................................................................................................................ 9 
EVALUATION CONTEXT .................................................................................................................... 15 
THEORY OF CHANGE ..................................................................................................................... 16 
EVALUATION FRAMEWORK .......................................................................................................... 17 
LIMITATIONS ...................................................................................................................................... 23 
FINDINGS ............................................................................................................................................ 23 
RELEVANCE .................................................................................................................................... 23 
DESIGN & DELIVERY ...................................................................................................................... 26 
OUTCOMES ........................................................................................................................................ 30 
OUTPUTS ........................................................................................................................................ 31 
IMMEDIATE OUTCOMES ............................................................................................................... 35 
RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................................................................................................... 44 
CONCLUSION .................................................................................................................................... 47 
APPENDICES ....................................................................................................................................... 48 
SIGNAL GOLD  - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................... 77 
PROJECT CONTEXT ........................................................................................................................... 82 
TRAINING WORKS ......................................................................................................................... 82 
EVALUATION CONTEXT .................................................................................................................... 87 
THEORY OF CHANGE ..................................................................................................................... 88 
EVALUATION FRAMEWORK .......................................................................................................... 90 
LIMITATIONS ...................................................................................................................................... 96 
FINDINGS ............................................................................................................................................ 96 
RELEVANCE .................................................................................................................................... 96 
DESIGN & DELIVERY ...................................................................................................................... 97 
OUTCOMES ...................................................................................................................................... 100 
OUTPUTS ...................................................................................................................................... 101 
IMMEDIATE OUTCOMES ............................................................................................................. 105 
RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................................................................................................... 108 
CONCLUSION .................................................................................................................................. 110 
APPENDICES ..................................................................................................................................... 111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 10 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 9  
1.0 PROJECT CONTEXT 
 
1.1 Project Overview  
 
Signal Gold, in partnership with Training Works, Agnico Eagle, and the Mining Industry 
Human Resource Council conducted a two- year microlearning project in the mining 
industry. Training Works is an EdTech company with vast experience working in skills 
development. Working with clients to create training that is relevant and applicable on 
the job, Training Works understands that each organization and its employees require a 
unique approach to skills development. This training put learning in the hands of almost 
200 participants who work at Signal Gold and Agnico Eagle Mining. The program was a 
total of two years which included the development and design of a microlearning and 
coaching program with 6 months of daily microlearning for employees. Employees 
completed up to 7 minutes of daily microlearning that could be done anywhere, anytime 
on their computers, mobile devices, and smart televisions. Coupled with onsite coaching 
and mentoring, this comprehensive blended learning program fits easily into an 
operator's daily schedule.  Agnico Eagle employees engaged in training daily during their 
toolbox talks which lasted from 12- 35 minutes.  On average, employees engaged in 
microlearning for 13.5 minutes a day across 90 working days, equating to  16.4 hours of 
training per participant and over 1000 hours of training for the organization. A total of 68 
MiHR Communication Micro credentials were awarded to the participants at Agnico 
Eagle. 
 
The mining industry is experiencing shifts in technology, constraints on time and budget 
for offsite training and employees working in the process plants are deskless. Training 
Works mining clients seek solutions for onsite training that is relevant and timely. Using 
their experience and previous collaboration, T raining Works proposed daily 
microlearning as a delivery model for this training.  Employees in this industry had 
demonstrated knowledge gains by using videos, checklists, infographics.  They prefer to 
stay on the job and learn rather than take the time away from their jobs for in -class 
training that often lasts for days. Employees felt that by incorporating safety training into 
their daily workday it would help them retain knowledge and be able to apply it. The 
Future Skills Centre (FSC) is a pan -Canadian organization passionate about creating a 
future in which everyone has life -long access to high -quality career advice and learning 
opportunities. The FSC’s focus is on strengthening Canada’s skills development 
ecosystem so that Canadians can look to a futur e of meaningful and relevant lifelong 
learning opportunities . FSC is funded by the Government of Canada Future Skills 
Program1. In 2019 FSC sought proposals for innovative projects that test and evaluate 
new or emerging approaches, or that expand, scale and/or replicate promising 
approaches, to progress the following three objectives: 
 
 
1https://fsc-ccf.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/Strategic-Plan-2020.pdf 

===== PAGE 11 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 10  
1. Support Canadian workers facing labour market disruption to transition to new 
jobs or industries; 
2. Engage employers in more effectively developing and delivering deman d-driven 
solutions to skills gap challenges; and, 
3. Optimize skills development systems by building the capacity of service providers 
to better collaborate with each other and other organizations that could expand 
or improve their services.   
 
Signal Gold submitted the Microlearning in the Mining Industry project under objective 
two to engage employers in more effectively developing and delivering demand- driven 
solutions to skills gap challenges . FSC has invested $930,000 in this innovative project 
that tests the outcomes of bite-size learning based on each employee’s need in their role 
at the time and focusing on behaviour-based safety and communications. All the training 
in this program had  a diversity lens applied to ensure appropriateness for the target 
audiences, which include remote, rural, and Northern communities . The additional on -
the-job support from coaches and mentors was designed to improve behaviour -based 
awareness through the hybrid of digital learning and a mentor/mentee on- the-job 
feedback loop. 
 
The purpose of this microlearning project was  to ensure that mining employees receive 
the right training to do their job on a continuous basis. These employees are limited in the 
amount of time they can spend away to receive training, the development of this 
microlearning program and delivery model was to combat this constraint while ensuring 
knowledge transfer and behavio ur change.  The goal of this project was to test the 
effectiveness of a microlearning model on increasing the skills of employees and 
changing behaviours on the job. The project team also hypothesized that this increase in 
knowledge and behaviour change would impact the organization by reducing incidents 
and accidents and increasing productivity . These metrics also affect the overall bottom 
line growth of the organization and overall ROI. 
 
1.2 What is the microlearning model? 
 
The definition of microlearning varies throughout the training industry, for this project 
the definition is short learning moments less than 6 minutes  in the form of video, 
podcasts, infographics, job aids and guided discussions relevant to the work 
environment and tasks.  Microlearning is meant to refresh your knowledge and help a 
worker apply this knowledge in the flow of work. By using familiar scenarios and work 
environments microlearning demonstrates how specific skills can be used on the job. 
 
The microlearning model (see below) illustrates the delivery model that was piloted at 
Agnico Ea gle Mining (in the process plant specifically). Th is pilot phase was used to 
develop greater u nderstanding for whether the microlearning model is scalable within 
and beyond the mining industry.  
 

===== PAGE 12 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 11  
 
 
The m icrolearning model began with engaging employees  at both Agnico Eagle and 
Signal Gold to understand the training needs from a management perspective as well as 
the frontline worker. The project team interviewed key stake holders within the  
management and health and safety team s to gain insight into the organization, the 
current training model , and requirements. The project execution team, Training Works 
engaged with frontline workers through interviews focus groups and one on  one 
discussions to learn about the skills required to do their jobs safely and their learning 
preferences as well as the operational reality and challenges to learning on the job. Using 
this engagement , a review incidents and accidents within the organizations  and 
leveraging industry research the Training Works team in consultation with Signal Gold 
and Agnico Eagle created a behaviour -based safety competency model  including 
communication. 
 


===== PAGE 13 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 12  
From the competency model a skills gap assessment was created to assess the 
employees’ understanding of each of the 10 competencies. Training Works utilized their 
flagship technology Skilltinuous for employee  skills assessments and microlearning 
delivery. Employees answered scenario-based questions as well as self-assessments for 
each competency.  
 
The microlearning content was developed from the engagement at both organizations, 
through analysis of the incide nts and accidents and the skills gap assessment.  During 
project execution, the training was adapted to also include guided discussions  and 
activities post-microlearning to enhance knowledge transfer. 
 
Microlearning was delivered during the toolbox talks an d followed by guided 
discussions. During these talks the Coach would discuss the topic of the microlearning, 
deliver it in the form of a video, podcast, poster, infographic, job aid or activity to the team 
and then follow up with provided questions  to increase engagement and interaction of 
the more experienced team members with the less experienced. By creating this space 
to talk safety, the teams had the opportunity to use their communication skills , develop 
their safety skills further, and the potential to increase their safety culture. 
 
The Coaching program was developed to help deliver the microlearning program and 
help participants with transferring knowledge into behaviour on the job. Each coach 
attended training sessions with the Training Works project team and given a 
presentation to understand the project and the competency model they would be using. 
Further to that coaches received a coaching handbook with each competency explained 
with behaviours to look for on the job. Early in the microlearning delivery, coaches 
expressed they needed guidance to deliver the microlearning. The program was adapted 
to include a Coaching overview , for every microlearning delivered the coach received 


===== PAGE 14 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 13  
directions on how to present the video, activity, or formats, provided notes on what to 
focus on in the training and discussion questions for a team conversation. 
 
 
1.3 Why was the model selected? 
 
In alignment with funders, Future Skills Centers “focus on strengthening Canada’s skills 
development ecosystem so that Canadians can look to a future of meaningful and 
relevant lifelong learning opportunities 2” microlearning was developed to provide 
deskless workers with accessible and continuous training opportunities to learn the skills 
required to stay safe on the job.  
 
Workplace learning is experiencing a drastic shift to support modern requirements. Time 
and money constraints within an organization limit the amount of time an employee can 
leave the job to attend training. In addition, today’s modern learner must be adaptable 
and able to react quickly to disruptions within the workplace.  
 
According to Deloitte, today’s learner has only 1% of their typical work week to focus on 
learning and development. Considering time and money constraints within 
organizations, it is key that learning be quick, contextualized, and continuous to  be 
effective. Additionally, today’s learners find themselves untethered to a single 
computer-based location, especially in a mining environ ment, making access on mobile 
devices increasingly important for learner uptake. The same modern learners prefer to 
be collaborative and learn from and with their peers instead of alone. Including a coaching 
and mentoring program alongside the microlearning program will address this need. 
 
Nearly half of Canadian jobs are at high risk of being affected by automation over the 
coming ten to twenty years. Technological disruption is predicted to most impact 
workers in disadvantaged groups. Workers in low -skill jobs are also most likely to be 
affected by automation. Rural and remote communities are at a high risk of being 
affected by job displacement due to training availability and proximity to city centers. It 
is important to ensure creation and retention of a skilled labour market in order to sustain 
the community and region. Thus, increasing the need for a scalable development 
program to avoid worker displacement  and provide deskless workers with continuing 
education.  
 
Additionally, development programs must be continuous in nature to support ongoing 
skills development within an organization. It is no longer enough to offer single training 
events within the workplace and to assume knowledge transfer will occur. Most of the 
knowledge learned in single training  events is forgotten shortly thereafter. To best 
increase skills transfer to the job, learning and development must occur on a continuous 
basis and be agile enough to apply changes when in demand skills shift. 
 
 
 
2 https://fsc-ccf.ca/who-we-are/#mission 

===== PAGE 15 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 14  
1.4 Microlearning at Agnico Eagle Mining  
 
Agnico Eagle is a leading senior Canadian gold mining company with international 
operations. Agnico Eagle prides itself on attaining the highest environmental, social and 
governance standards with the safety of its people as the highest priority.  The Meliadine 
mine was chosen for this project and is in the Kivalliq District of Nunavut.  
 
Commercial gold production began in May of 2019,  employing 1194 people onsite 
including contractors. The mill employs a conventional gold circuit comprising crushing, 
grinding, gravity separation and cyanide leaching with a carbon-in-leach circuit, followed 
by cyanide destruction and filtration of the tailings for dry stacking. Metallurgical 
recoveries are e xpected to average 96%.  In 2021 Meliadine operation has continued to 
experience growth and employed 1410 people including contractors.  
 
With close to 1500 people working at this site safety is of the utmost importance,  
Meliadine processing plant was chose n for the microlearning project as the Health and 
Safety team was looking for new ways to engage  with their workers and saw this as an 
opportunity to grow the Health and Safety Program. The Microlearning in the Mining 
industry project was initiated with the leadership and management team at Meliadine 
beginning in 2021. In order to understand the skills required onsite and the operational 
reality of delivering training in the flow of work , Training Works engaged with members 
of the leadership team and with frontline workers through focus groups, interviews, and 
site visits. Delivery of the microlearning began in January of 2022 at Meliadine Processing 
Plant, with 138 people taking part in the training including the maintenance team and the 
assay lab. Other op erations at Meliadine did not receive the microlearning program.  
Using a control group, the impact of Microlearning is measured within this evaluation by 
comparing safety statistics of the Meliadine Processing Plant to the Meliadine 
operations that did not receive the training. Keep in mind that all other safety programs 
are delivered through the full operation at Meliadine, however implementation and 
therefore effectiveness will vary depending on supervisor experience and operational 
reality, team buy-in and many other factors.  
 
It is important to note that COVID -19 had a significant impact on the project  at Agnico 
Eagle. While Agnico Eagle relies on local Inuit communities for over 20% of its workforce, 
the operation runs a remote camp site with employees and contractors working on a fly 
in and fly out schedule.  As a protective measure during the pandemic the Inuit workforce 
onsite were reduced. Employees and contractors flying onto site were also reduced due 
to travel restrictions and contracting the virus, therefore  the microlearning was delayed 
due to only having skeleton crews onsite in the early months of 2022.  
 
  

===== PAGE 16 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 15  
2.0 EVALUATION CONTEXT  
 
The evaluation of the microlearning project expand ed over the two -year period lasting 
from June 2020-August 2022. With the evaluation planning and baseline data collection 
occurring in 2020- 2021, program monitoring and evaluation data collection in 2021-
2022, and evaluation reporting in October 2022 to Future Skills.  
 
Preliminary information was gathered and documented at the beginning of the project 
through interviews, questionnaires and document review. This initial research took 
approximately six months and concluded by December 2020. This information was used 
to develop the evaluation framework created by a credentialed evaluator is continuous 
and will ensure the success of the project.  
 
Upon the development of the digital competency tool and the microlearning program 
beginning, a more in-depth review of internal safety training, procedures, competencies 
and gaps took place.   
 
Throughout the implementation of the microlearning process, evidence of its 
effectiveness and outcomes achieved were monitored throughout. A pre-survey was 
administered to all participants at the onset to achieve a base level on key metrics (early 
2021). Once microlearning was launched, participant engagement and success of 
learning was tracked using individual assessments that were completed a s a part of the 
training (ongoing for 6- month period). Similar to the pre survey, this was given to both 
the control and experimental groups to identify changes in learning at this stage.  Finally, 
a post-survey was administered to the two groups after the  6-month training to capture 
learnings (August 2022).   
 
In order to  determine the impact of the program on the organization and to triangulate 
findings, interviews with coaches/mentors and organizational leaders were conducted 
at the mid-point of microlearning (May/June  2022) and upon completion (September 
2022). 
 
Additionally, evidence for the effectiveness of the training was  captured through 
administrative data in order to track changes in key performance indicators (e.g., number 
of incidences, profit; completed throughout the process).  
 
Finally, a six -month follow-up survey was implemented 6 -months after the training has 
occurred in order to determine long term impact and to further test the appropriateness 
of the training. 
 
The evaluation covers all aspects noted by the Future Skills Center: 
• Evidence 
o The evidence journey began with a rigorous assessment of an intervention’s 
logic model and theory of change. As interventions demonstrate preliminary 

===== PAGE 17 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 16  
evidence of success, they are ready for more rigorous evaluation with the 
ultimate aim of preparing for impact evaluation a nd cost -benefit analysis to 
generate the quality of evidence necessary to inform scaling decisions. 
• Implementation 
o As interventions mature, we have set quality benchmarks and use techniques, 
such as rapid-cycle evaluation, to support projects through an ongoing cycle of 
continuous learning and program improvement. 
• Relevance 
o As evaluation findings emerge, we update our assessment of each 
intervention’s relevance to our mandate and its potential to have an impact at 
a pan-Canadian scale. This assessment proce ss is conducted in collaboration 
with provinces and territories and other key stakeholders in Canada’s skills 
development ecosystems. The results of this assessment are critical input to 
decision-making for reinvestment. 
 
2.1 Theory of Change  
 
A TOC is a map indicating the logically related aspects of an initiative. It shows, at a broad 
conceptual level, the links among an initiative’s inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes.   
 
The definitions for each component of the TOC include: 
• Inputs: Financial and human resources used to deliver activities, produce outputs 
and accomplish outcomes.  
• Activities: The “how” – actions, initiatives, or specific programs implemented to 
produce outputs.  
• Outputs: The “what” – direct product s or services produced from the activities. 
Outputs are usually tangible or quantified.  
• Outcomes: The “why” – changes that occur as a result of the outputs of the 
program, project or initiative. Outcomes can be short -term (immediate) or 
medium-term (intermediate).  
• Impacts: The bigger picture or long -term outcomes. Impacts are usually 
influenced by other confounding factors and cannot be solely contributable to the 
program, project or initiative.  
 
Figure 1 illustrates the progression of the project from d evelopment to implementation 
and evaluation. The development of the microlearning program and delivery model 
combines prescriptive and contextualized continuous training and an on the job 
mentoring program to ensure transfer of knowledge and behavior change. The intended 
outcome is to increase communication and safety incident repo rting, to decrease safety 
incidents by i mproving the overall safety culture of the organization and thus in -turn 
improve the organizations efficiency and productivity. 
 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 18 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 17  
Figure 1: TOC of the Microlearning in the Mining Industry Project 
 
 
2.2 Evaluation Framework 
 
An evaluation framework is an  important preparatory tool in the evaluation process 
because it allows for advanced consideration of the evaluation approach, to identify data 
requirements for project stakeholders, and to determine how these requirements will be 
met. 


===== PAGE 19 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 18  
 
Below is an evaluat ion and performance measurement framework for the evaluation of 
the Microlearning Mining Industry project and includes: 
• Core evaluation issues (relevance, design and delivery, outcomes); 
• Evaluation questions covering the core evaluation issues; and 
• Methods for data collection. 
 
The evaluation questions and the corresponding indicators listed below are based on the 
document reviewed, an in- person workshop and conversations held with program staff 
to reflect the present iteration of the programs.  
 
Note: Asterisk * indicates Future Skills Common Outcomes Framework Indicators  
 
Table 1: Evaluation Framework  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
Participant Information 
(baseline/post survey) 
     
*Gender    X  
*Age    X  
*Location    X  
*Marital Status     X  
*Children    X  
*Education    X  
*Indigenous Identity    X  
*Francophone    X  
*Newcomer Status     X  
*Racialized status    X  
*Disability     X  
*Industry and Occupation  X     
*Employment Status  X     
*Source of income  X     
Relevance      
Alignment between the project 
and Future Skills  X    X 
Alignment between the project 
and the mining industry  X    X 
Perception of the effectiveness 
and flexibility of the project’s 
design to be responsive to evolving 
needs and objectives  
X    X 
Ability/sufficiency to adjust the 
program to larger sector needs X    X 

===== PAGE 20 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 19  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
Perception of the relevance of the 
microlearning topics to 
participants and the sectors 
X   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X 
X 
Design and Delivery       
Number of courses/topics created X    X 
Number of courses/topics 
completed  X    
Number of participants engaged  X    
Number of mentors actively 
involved in the project  X    
Perceptions on the effectiveness of 
the training    X X 
Perceptions on the mode of 
delivery (6 months/ 
microlearning/app usage & 
functionality) 
   X X 
% of learning assessments 
completed   X X  
Outcomes       
% of participants who show an 
increase in knowledge in safety -
based practices  
  X X  
% of participants who show 
increased communication skills   X X  
% of participants who show an 
increase in adoption of safety -
based behaviours on the worksite   
  X X  
% of mentors who report an 
increase in participant knowledge 
in safety-based practices 
   X X 
% of mentors who report an 
increase in participant 
communication 
   X X 
Perceived change in safety 
behaviours in the workplace    X X 

===== PAGE 21 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 20  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
*% of participants with increased 
employment opportunities 
(including change in employment) 
   X  
*% of participants with increased 
employment earnings (sources)    X  
*% of participants who were 
overall satisfied with the program    X  
*% of participants with increased 
job satisfaction     X  
*% of participants with increased 
opportunity to enroll in further 
training or education programs (if 
yes, types or program enrolled) 
   X  
Perception of ability for career 
advancement    X  
# of safety courses completed (in 
addition to microlearning)       
Turn over rates (employee 
engagement)  X    
#/% of internal staff promotions      
Level of safety compliance  X    
Level of environmental 
compliance  X    
# of incidence reports by  
• Area (e.g., processing, 
mining, maintenance) 
• Incident type (e.g., lost time, 
near miss, property 
damage)  
• Cause (e.g., failure to be 
attentive, failure to be 
secure, improper lifting) 
 X    
# of injury reports by  
• Area (e.g., processing, 
mining, maintenance) 
• Incident type (e.g., lost time, 
near miss, property 
damage)  
• Cause (e.g., failure to be 
attentive, failure to be 
secure, improper lifting) 
 X    

===== PAGE 22 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 21  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
Perception of emergency 
preparedness     X X 
Hours of HR training required   X    
Hours of safety training required  X    
Enablers to programs success    X X 
Barriers to programs success    X X 
Perception of unintended 
outcomes    X X 
Economic performance       
Cost saving around staffing time 
vs. in-classroom training     X    
Operating statistics 
• Number of operating days  
• Product mined  
• Tonnes per operating day  
• Operating costs  
 X    
Costs/efforts towards safety  
• OHS directives issues  
• Inspections  
• Safety meetings  
• Violations  
• Site orientations   
 X    
Cost of program per participant vs. 
economic performance change 
(bottom line growth) 
 X    
 
Based on the framework, a mixed/multi -method approach was implemented which 
included a document review, administrative data analysis, key informant interviews, 
surveys, and learning assessments. 
 
Document Review 
Dig conducted a document review to gain an understanding of the microlearning project 
including its relevance, intended outcomes, implementation and outcomes achieved to 
date. Below is a list of documents that were reviewed:  
 Number of injury reports 
 Number of incidence reports  
 HR/Safety trainings  
 Operating statistics 
 Costs/efforts towards safety  
 
  

===== PAGE 23 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 22  
Administrative Data  
Training Works provided Dig with administrative data from the organizations to analyze 
the scope of training completed and the achievement of outcomes. This included data on: 
 Training hours 
 Safety courses completed 
 Employee turnover  
 Level of safety compliance 
 Level of environmental compliance 
Key Informant Interviews 
Key informant interviews were conducted to gather a deeper understa nding and to 
explore any questions that emerged as a result of the findings from other evaluation 
methods. In total nine  key informant interviews were conducted with key stakeholders 
including: 
 Participants (N=3)  
 Supervisors (N=3)  
 Project Manager  
 Health and Safety Superintendent 
 Process Plant Superintendent  
 
The detailed interview guides can be found in Appendix A.  
 
Participant Surveys 
Surveys were completed pre,  and post program to gauge participants experience and 
learnings. Full survey results can be found in Appendix C.  
 
Survey Number of Completes 
Pre 37 
Post 34 
6-Month Follow-Up 23 
 
Skills Assessments  
Analyzing industry information, incidents,  and accident reports, and learning firsthand 
information from frontline workers the competency model for this project was 
delivered. From here a digital competency tool was utilized to identify the skills gap to be 
addressed in the microlearning program. Key behaviors within each of the 4 
communication competencies were aligned  with behaviours required in MiHR’s 
National Occupational Standards  for Minerals Processing Operator.  Both scenario-
based questions and self-assessment questions were curated with consultation from the 
health and safety team.  Training Works Skilltinuous platform was populated with the 
competency model and the assessment questions.  Participants were introduced to the 
Skilltinuous technology and given a guided tour through the process as well as  a 
technology guide to consult if they struggled with the process . The digital competency 
tool was used to understand the skill level of the workforce before the microlearning and 

===== PAGE 24 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 23  
identify the skills gap in the 10 competencies . O nce the microlearning was complete  
Skilltinuous was used to identify the knowledge gained in each of the 10 competencies.  
 
Survey Number of Completes 
Initial Skills Assessment 95 
Final Skills Assessment  79 
Participants Completed Initial & Final 58 
 
3.0 LIMITATIONS  
 
Annual data included in the report covers the period of January -September annually. 
With 2022 data only being available up to September, t his allowed the  year-over-year 
change in the organization to be evaluated accurately. This period is also inclusive of the 
time in which microlearning took place at the process plant.  
 
It is important to note that the safety statistics in the final evaluation (section 5 .2.3) 
include a comparison of the Agnico organization to the process plant (the pilot site for 
microlearning). The impact of microlearning on safety statistics could be seen when 
evaluated against the rest of the organization, that did not partake in microlearning.   
 
Furthermore, t he final evaluation is being completed immediately following the  
conclusion of the microlearning project. This evaluation was  conducted immediately 
after the completion of the program and is difficult to assess the long-term impact at this 
point however there has been a noted change in behaviour, knowledge and culture as 
seen throughout this document.  
 
4.0 FINDINGS 
 
This section presents the findings and supporting evidence from the final evaluation of 
the microlearning program.   
 
4.1 Relevance  
 
Finding: Microlearning model was found to be relevant to the needs of the 
organization and the mining industry . The training program provided a behaviour -
based approach to health and safety, which helped increase employee engagement on 
this important matter. 
 

===== PAGE 25 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 24  
While seen as highly relevant to the organization, employees anticipated 
microlearning to pertain more to their organization or industry. As  the project 
progressed, training content and follow up discussion s were directed towards  
employees specific position/team, to help them better comprehend how the 
behavioural skills covered in microlearning can be applied in their day-to-day job.  
 
 
4.1.1 Relevance to the Mining Industry   
Workplace health and safety is of high importance, and at the Agnico organization has 
always been held to a high standard. Although, findi ng the time to gather and train 
employees without impeding operational efficiency can be challenging  in the mining 
industry. The Microlearning model of delivery was introduced at Agnico to provide 
employees with ongoing behaviour- based health and safety tr aining in a time effective 
manner, while bringing a proactive approach to workplace health and safety. 
 
 
“We learned how to provide the right information to employees and develop a routine for 
safety prevention tactics.” 
 - Coach  
 
“Helped the organization realize that we can always talk more about safety.” 
- Coach  
 
The Microlearning model also helped to bring new delivery methods to the organization 
and the mining industry and provide better structure to health and safety trainings . This 
helped to increase engagement and discussion between employees and coaches.   
 
“We were looking for new ways to improve H&S, new ways to talk about it. Most incidents 
are related to behaviour, so microlearning made sense. It also provided supervisors with 
content to present and engage over.”  
- Leader 
 
Overall, microlearning delivery model was found to be relevant to the needs  of the 
organization and the mining industry. Providing a different approach to health and safety 
training for employees is something that mentors and leaders hope to see expand within 
the organization and the industry.  
 
“I hope it’s going to continue. The formula is really good. It goes well with the philosophy of 
the organization.” 
- Leader 
 
  

===== PAGE 26 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 25  
4.1.2 Relevance to Employees  
 
Overall,  41% of employees (Figure 2) expressed satisfaction with microlearning as it 
helped them understand the impact of their behaviours on themselves and others, which 
is an integral component of creating a safe working environment.  
 
Figure 2:  Overall, how satisfied are you with the microlearning program? (n=34)  
 
 
Employees recognized the importance of health and safety in the workplace setting, and 
especially the mining industry.  Therefore, p articipating in  daily training  was seen as 
valuable for the safety of themselves and others.  Agnico successfully achieved an 83% 
completion rate of the microlearning program (95 employees started, 79 employees 
completed). Furthermore, it  was found that m icrolearning was  effective in getting 
employees thinking more about their behaviors and actions while on the job.   
 
“Before working it's helpful for thinking more about the task.”  
- Employee 
 
“Reminder to focus on safety, and all small things that can help.”  
-  Employee 
 
“Reminds to pay more attention to my surroundings.” 
-  Employee  
 
Although, some employees felt the training material did not directly relate to employees’ 
day-to-day job at Agnico, it was found that only 27% of participants (Figure 2) were not 
satisfied, as they didn’t feel they were able to learn from the program as they hoped.  
Some employees struggled  to understand how the behavioural skills covered in 
microlearning can be applied in the workplace and their role at Agnico. 
The 33% of employees that stated they would be unlikely to recommend (Figure 3) 
attributed it to the lack of mining industry applications in microlearning. Moreover, 30% 
of participants would recommend (Figure 3) the microlearning program as it increased 
awareness of their behavioural actions in the workplace.  
 
 
 
 
9% 18% 32% 41%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Satsifaction
Very Dissatisfied Somewhat Dissatisfied Neutral Somewhat Satisfied Very Satisfied

===== PAGE 27 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 26  
Figure 3: Based on your experience in the program, how likely are you to recommend 
someone else to the program? (n=34)  
 
 
Overall, microlearning helpe d bring awareness to the importance of behaviour -based 
safety skills in the workplace. The inclusion of mining industry examples and applications 
in the program would help some employees better understand how these skills can be 
applied in their position a t Agnic o. Enhanced relevance  would also increase employee 
satisfaction with the program. 
 
4.2 Design & Delivery 
  
Finding: It was found that the design of microlearning model was effective in providing 
safety refreshers to employees . The behaviour -based approach of microlearning  
delivery model was seen as a reiteration and reminder of what experienced employees 
had learned over the course of their career.  For new employees, it provided them with 
new learnings and consistent reminders of safety practices.  
 
The delivery model of microlearning allowed it to be integrated into the existing pre -
shift meetings, which made it a routine and daily occurrence for employees and 
coaches. Additionally, the concept of short training videos was appealing for capturing 
the attention and interest of employees. Although, it was noted that the limited time in 
pre-shift meetings, made it difficult to have an effective and engaging discussion 
following the training videos, which is something that coaches would like to have more 
of.   
 
The Microlearning delivery model was designed to ensure that mining employees 
receive the right training to do their job on a continuous basis, which the program 
successfully achieved. Although, optimizing the design and delivery to ensure it can be 
delivered, while meeting the needs of t he organization is critical to enhancing 
effectiveness.  
 
4.2.1 Microlearning Design  
Microlearning was designed as a behaviour -based training program using the 
competency model outline d in Table 2. The competency model was created through 
analysis of incidents and accidents, to understand what behaviours or lack thereof were 
contributing to these incidents and accidents. From there key informant interviews were 
held with employees in the organization to understand the skills needed to perform their 
jobs safely and any skills gaps they identified themselves. From there it was understood 
18% 15% 37% 24% 6%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Likelihood to recommend
Very Unlikely Unlikely Neutral Likely Very Likely

===== PAGE 28 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 27  
that Situational Awareness and Communication were the top skills identified by the 
workers and industry research as well. To verify this, several focus groups with the 
organization w ere conducted to discuss in detail both communication and situational 
awareness.  
 
The competency model had ten competencies overall, four  concentrating on 
communication and six  to develop the skills needed to increase situational awareness. 
The communication competencies were aligned with MiH R National Occupational 
Standards to ensure participants could receive a micro credential from MiH R in 
Communication for the Minerals Processing Operator NOS. The other six competencies 
were presented to and reviewed by a Human Factors Expert and then reviewed and 
approved by the organizations Health and Safety Manager/Superintendent.  
 
Table 2: Microlearning Competencies Model  
Competency Description 
Mindfulness Mindfulness is being present in the moment. You think about the 
outcomes of your actions before you finish the task. You think about 
the impact of your words before you say them. 
Vigilance Vigilance means to keep your focus and stay alert while doing tasks at 
work. To be safe at work you must always keep an eye on the people, 
the machines, and your work site. 
Active Listening You listen to understand the speaker’s message. 
Effective Inquiry You ask questions with purpose. 
Closed Loop 
Communication 
You use a 3-step process when you speak. You state the message, you 
wait for the listener to tell you their version of the message and you 
confirm when they are correct. 
Assertiveness You make sure your message is heard and addressed. 
Strategic Decision 
Making 
You use a 5-step process to decide.  
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
3.  Consider your options 
4. Decide on a path forward 
5.  Evaluate your decision 
Team Building You are a part of a team working towards a goal. To reach the goal your 
team works well together and continue to improve and learn. 
Workload 
Management 
You understand how to manage your tasks with the team and goal in 
mind. If you are a manager or supervisor, you are able to assign tasks to 
individuals based on their role in the company and skill level. 
Coaching Coaching is already a big part of day-to-day tasks at your company. By 
coaching others, you are sharing your know -how and skills. You help 
members of your team to become safe in the workplace. 
 
Once the competency model was approved,  a skills assessment was completed by the 
employees to assess their levels for each competency, also completed upon the 
completion of microlearning. Behavioural change was also assessed in the pre, and post 
surveys employed completed. These results will be detailed in the following section.  

===== PAGE 29 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 28  
 
Overall, t he behaviour-based model of microlearning was found to be effective  for 
newer/less experienced employees in the industry or workplace setting. It brought 
attention to skillsets that will help them to remain safe while performing their job and 
ensuring others are acting in a safe manner.  
 
Communication is key to safety.. if unsure ask supervisor or someone who knows. Do NOT 
be shy to bring up safety concerns. 
- Employee 
 
For long-standing employees in the mining industry, microlearning served as a valuable 
reminder of the impact their behaviours have on workplace health and safety. 
Microlearning provided a reminder of the skills employees should be applying on a daily 
basis to stay safe on the job.   
 
“It has helped with reminding me to ask for help when I’m lost or confused with the job. This 
program is good for new employees coming into the industry.”  
- Employee  
 
“It was more of a reminder program than a learning one.” 
- Employee  
 
“I feel like it’s more geared to industry newcomers, and not the broad workforce we have 
here.”  
- Leader  
 
4.2.2 Microlearning Delivery  
With employees being constrained to a limited amount of training time in their workday, 
the microlearning delivery model was designed to be a quick and effective training tool 
to ensure that employees receive consistent training. To combat time limitations, mining 
employees completed approximately four minutes of training per day, followed by a 
collaborative discussion with other employees and coaches.  The purpose of the 
discussion was to generate conversation to enhance learning on the safety topic 
covered, with the hope that employees would continue the conversation while on the job 
site. 
 
“Being short is really good, it’s hard to keep the attention of everyone.”  
- Coach 
 
The design of the microlearning program was found to be effective , with coaches being 
able to incorporat e the training videos and discussion into daily toolbox talks (pre -shift 
meeting). It can be problematic for the organization to arrange company-wide trainings, 
therefore being able to integrate into a pre-existing meeting helped to make it a routine.  
 

===== PAGE 30 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 29  
It was found that 40% of employees were satisfied with the microlearning delivery model 
(Figure 4), given that it could be incorporated into the preexisting toolbox talks  – a time 
when all employees can gather pre-shift. 
 
Figure 4: For this program you will complete about 5 minutes of training per day while on 
shift and receive feedback and support from coaches. How would you rate your 
satisfaction with this training model? (n=34)  
 
 
While making microlearning a routine was effecti ve for some, 24% of employees were 
not satisfied with the model (Figure 4). Employees and coaches noted that incorporating 
microlearning into toolbox talks limited the effectiveness of the training for the following 
reasons:  
 
1) Limited time  
With some video s running longer than four minutes combined with a discussion, 
microlearning was consuming 10+ minutes of their toolbox talk, in which they have other 
day-to-day topics that need to be covered during this time. Microlearning often felt 
rushed, and the limited time impeded on the quality of discussion and takeaways.  
 
“We already have so much to cover during our daily toolbox talks, that it was hard to fit 
microlearning in to. It felt forced and rushed which took away from it, the guys just wanted 
to get started with their day.” 
- Coach 
2) Frequency 
In addition to managing time in the daily toolbox talks, e mployees and coaches also 
emphasized that daily microlearning videos was too frequent and caused employees to 
become unengaged .  While the topic of safety is highly important to the organization, 
employees weren’t as attentive and interested in the videos as the program progressed.  
 
“If we ever go with phase 2 my suggestion would be weekly. Hard to manage with the 
toolbox meeting.” 
- Coach 
 
“One video per week/two weeks – could be 30 minutes of real-time scenarios that can be 
presented every rotation, or in the monthly safety meeting would be more effective. We could 
have better discussion, and employees might be more engaged.”  
12% 12% 38% 32% 6%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Delivery Model
Very Dissatisfied Somewhat Dissatisfied Neutral Somewhat Satisfied Very Satisfied

===== PAGE 31 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 30  
- Coach 
 
Additionally, it was noted by employees and coaches that the cartoon elements of the 
training videos made it less appealing and relevant to employees. While it didn’t take 
away from their learnings, training videos using human actors/actresses would be more 
professional and suitable for the audience.  
 
“Cartoons are for kids not for industrial workers.” 
- Employee 
 
5.0 OUTCOMES  
 
Finding: Employees completed ten modules in the microlearning program: active 
listening, mindfulness, workload management, decision making, vigilance, effective 
inquiry, closed loop communication, assertiveness, team building, and coaching.  
 
It was found that microlearning was successful in increasing behaviours across all ten 
competencies covered in the program at Agnico. Behavioural change has led to 
heightened awareness for safety -based practices and behaviours, helping the 
organization to develop a prevention focused approach to workplace health and 
safety.  
 
In addition to behavioural change, microlearning provided the opportunity for 
increased engagement between employees and coaches, generating more 
conversation on the impor tance of health and safety across the organization. 
Furthermore, employees gained the confidence and communication skills to speak up 
about health and safety matters to other employees and their supervisors.  
 
While it is too early to fully assess the impact of microlearning on organizational safety 
statistics, injury and incident rates up until September 2022 suggest that the process 
plant has experienced a downwards trend. The process plant experienced a decline in 
incidents and injuries, 27% and 29% YoY from 2021, respectively. With a 39% increase 
in reported near misses, it is evident that the program has brought a proactive 
approach and made health and safety top of mind across the organization.  
 
  

===== PAGE 32 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 31  
5.1 OUTPUTS  
 
5.1.1 Employees have access to training 
Providing accessible training for employees is challenging in the mining industry and 
more and more employees are wanting to engage with training in the flow of work.  
Microlearning was welcomed in the Agnico organization,  and the delivery model was 
successful in meeting their needs. 
 
“The videos were quick enough that it was easy to understand the message.” 
- Employee  
 
“The videos were well made. But I feel they were more suited a younger audience. It didn’t 
take away from the learning, but real people could have made it more applicable to my job.” 
- Employee  
 
While safety has always been top-of-mind for the organization, coaches recognized that 
microlearning is an effective tool to increase awareness and discussion of workplace 
health and safety for Meliadine processing plant employees.  
 
“Helped the organization realize they weren’t talking enough about safety.” 
- Coach 
 
“Health and safety is a priority for the organization, but it can be hard to promote in the 
operation and provide the right tools. This is what microlearning was useful for. Other areas 
of the organization have expressed interest in the program.” 
- Coach 
 
5.1.2 Training modules completed  
Over the course of the microlearning program, employees completed ten modules, 
which algin with the competencies outlined in Table 2 and include the following:  
 
• Active Listening  
• Mindfulness  
• Workload Management  
• Decision Making 
• Vigilance  
• Effective Inquiry  
• Closed Loop Communication 
• Assertiveness 
• Team Building 
• Coaching 
 

===== PAGE 33 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 32  
With most workplace accidents being behaviour- related, the idea of a behaviour -based 
health and safety program was appealing to Agnico. Although, upon completing the 
program coaches expressed the need for the modules to be better tied to the 
organization and the mining industry.   
 
“It was useful, but the behaviours were not tied enough to day-to-day activities. It could 
make coaching hard when employees weren’t understanding how it relates to them.” 
- Coach  
 
“To have an impact, we need to have something more adaptable. At the end, we combined 
the videos with the reality we have on site and the feedback was better. Involve more actual 
workers on-site in the videos will be more relevant and impactful.”  
- Coach  
 
Overall, the behaviour- based approach of microlearning was found to be effective  and 
should be carried forward, but there is an opportunity to better relate  the modules with 
the organization and industry.  
 
5.1.3 Engagement with coaches and mentors 
The Microlearning delivery model helped to increase engagement between employees 
and coaches and mentors. Most notably, the training  provided coaches with content to 
present to employees, which aided in generating discussion. This also helped to ensure 
consistent knowledge sharing across all departments and shifts.  
 
From the coach’s experie nce of being a supervisor, it can be difficult to formulate a 
collaborative discussion with the team. The training played a valuable role as a “thought 
starter” to get the conversation flowing between employees and coaches.  
 
“I told the guys it’s your program not mine, so they will only succeed if they participate. 
Once they got started it was good conversation.”  
- Coach 
 
Most notably, the microlearning delivery model helped employees to overcome barriers 
of identifying and calling out health and safety risks to their colleagues and supervisors. 
Therefore, microlearning has also helped to increase engagement between employees.  
 
“There is more of an eye for safety. Employees are not afraid to speak up to their colleagues. 
They are even talking to each other instead of going straight to the supervisor.” 
- Coach 
 
5.1.4 Awareness of safety-based practices  
The Microlearning delivery model was successful in making safety practices top-of-mind 
for employees. Completing ongoing safety trainings helped employees to become more 
aware how their behaviours contribute to a safe workplace. Previous organization safety 

===== PAGE 34 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 33  
training had limited focus on behavioural skills, therefore this model served as a valuable 
learning opportunity and reminder to both new and experienced employees.  
 
“It’s important to take the time for thinking.” 
- Employee  
 
“I learned how to be more receptive to new information.” 
- Employee 
 
“Learned how to work within a group.” 
- Employee 
 
“Made me more aware of things I wouldn't not watch for.” 
- Employee 
 
Furthermore, Table 3 outlines the results of the employee skills assessment completed 
by employees pre and post microlearning. The Microlearning delivery model was 
successful in increasing behavioural  skills across the ten competencies covered in the 
program. Total knowledge gain for organization in behaviour based safety was 19.13%. 
The competencies which incurred significant change in the Agnico organization include , 
active listening, decision making, effective inquiry, closed loop communication, and team 
building.  
 
 
Table 3: Skills Assessment Results  
Competency  Pre (N=95) 
Post 
(N=79) Change 
Active Listening  81.14 84.36 3.22 
Mindfulness  82.89 83.77 0.88 
Workload Management 80.87 82.05 1.19 
Decision Making 82.00 84.23 2.23 
Vigilance 83.09 84.55 1.46 
Effective Inquiry  83.05 86.73 3.69 
Closed Loop Communication  83.38 86.07 2.69 
Assertiveness 83.44 84.95 1.51 
Team Building 84.90 87.16 2.26 
Coaching 82.43 83.06 0.64 
Total    ~ 20% 
 
Additionally, Appendix B  outlines the results of the behavioural  assessment that 
employees completed as a part of the pre and post survey. Corresponding with the skills 
assessment results (Table 3), microlearning was effective in increasing skills across all 
ten competencies.  
  

===== PAGE 35 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 34  
Making safety training a regular occurre nce in the organization was a critical success 
factor to increasing awareness of safety- based practices . While the delivery model of 
microlearning has proven to be effective, it was emphasized by employees and coaches 
that daily trainings were too frequent and detracted from employees’  interest and 
participation in the training. Moving forward it would be valuable to implement a delivery 
model into the organization that enforce s regular safety trainings without being 
overbearing on employees and coaches.  
 
“It should be regular, maybe once a week and not every day.”  
- Employee  
 
5.1.5 Awareness of communication skills 
Communication was encompassed across four of the ten competencies covered in the 
microlearning program. For the organization, this was a behavioural skill seen as  highly 
valuable, especially given bilingualism in the  Agnico organization. As seen in Table 3  
above, microlearning was effective in increasing closed loop communication skills  
specifically, but communication was a skill that integrated across multiple modules of the 
microlearning program (e.g., team building, coaching, active listening).  
 
Participants echoed that the development of communication skills was a key takeaway 
of microlearning. It elevated awareness and understanding of the role of proper 
communication in workplace health and safety.  
 
“It has helped to communicate clearly the tasks at hand.” 
- Employee 
 
“A daily reminder of the importance of proper communication.” 
- Employee 
 
“Getting the skills to better communicate with others.” 
- Employee  
  

===== PAGE 36 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 35  
5.2 IMMEDIATE OUTCOMES  
 
5.2.1 Adoption of safety behaviours  
As discussed in sectio n 5.4 and 5.5, microlearning was successful in producing 
behavioural change amongst employees. The trainings were effective in putting safety 
behaviours at the forefront for employees in their day -to-day job which has led to more 
thought and discussion around safety behaviours in the organization.  It is also important 
to recognize a target for the health and safety team is to increase the safety behaviours 
of their workforce. The goal is to move employees up the scale from never or sometimes 
using a safety behaviour to the target of always using that behaviour . O nce these 
behaviours increase there will be a reflection seen in incidents and accidents onsite. 
“It gives you a different approach to your job and the people around you. If you aren’t sure, 
you think a little more about it. What to do? What are the risks involved?”  
-  Employee  
 
It has also been acknowledg ed that the organization has not been able to see and 
measure the long-term extent to which microlearning has made an impact at the time of 
this evaluation. Although, coaches expressed that microlearning has been an effective 
tool for informing and reminding employees of safety behaviours on-the-job.   
 
“At this point I don’t think people have changed their behaviours that much. It’s hard to 
know if you saved an incident.” 
- Coach 
 
5.2.2 Enhanced communication 
Microlearning was successful in developing communication skills across the 
organization. The trainings helped both employees and coaches develop skills to better 
communicate with one another. The communication microlearning was aligned with the 
national occupational standar ds for Minerals Processing Operator where MiHR 
awarded 68 communication micro credentials to the participants. 
 
Through engagement with other employees and coaches, microlearning has helped 
employees to feel more comfortable communicating in the workplace,  leading to less 
hesitation about bringing up safety concerns to other employees or supervisors. As 
language is a barrier for some employees of Agnico, microlearning has provided  
communication tactics for navigating a bilingual workplace. 
 
“Microlearning was effective in providing a basis for how to start changing behaviours. It’s 
hard to say at this point if it has a difference. But I think it has employees thinking about 
and discussing health and safety more.” 
- Coach  
 
“I don’t see a different attitude yet, but I see more discussion.” 

===== PAGE 37 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 36  
- Leader 
 
 
While communication was a skill that was integrated across microlearning modules,  
Figure 5 exemplifies that upon completion of microlearning 97% of employees use 
closed-loop communication, known as a three-step process – state the message, listener 
tells their version, confirms when it is correct.  
 
“The program has reminded me to make sure my message is clear and understood when I 
talk.”  
- Employee 
 
Figure 5: Please read each one carefully and then rate where you think your current 
behaviours are on a scale from 1-5. (1 - you never do this behaviour to 5 - you always take 
part in this behaviour) 
 
 
Refer to Appendix B for results of all competencies covered in microlearning.  
 
Similarly, coaches  and employees have recognized that microlearnin g has helped to 
generate conversation , made employees more comfortable to speak up, and 
emphasized a preventative approach to workplace health and safety in the organization.  
 
“The biggest learning was how to provide the right information to employees and develop a 
routine for safety prevention tactics.”  
-  Coach 
 
“Made it easier to say something if someone is doing wrong.”  
-  Employee 
 
  
5% 3%
18%
50%
24%
- - 3%
53%
44%
- -
18%
43% 39%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Closed Loop Communication
Pre Post Follow-Up

===== PAGE 38 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 37  
“Communication is key to safety. If unsure ask supervisor or someone who knows. Do NOT 
be shy to bring up safety concerns.” 
- Employee 
 
 
5.2.3 Increased incident reporting  
Agnico continues to diligently report on incidents that occur across  organization. Refer 
to Figure 6 and 7 below for the annual breakout of incident type. Refer to Appendix D for 
comparison graphs by incident type. Note: process plant statistics are reflective of the 
part of the organization where microlearning occurred. Organization stats refer to 
overall (without the process plant). This is included to best understand the impact 
microlearning was able to have on the process plant. Stats are presented year over year 
from January to September to allow comparison. 
 
 
Incidents 
 
Figure 6: Process plant annual incidents by type (January-September) 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Organization annual incidents by type (January-September) 
 
 
 
 
  
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2019 2020 2021 2022
Fire Incident Material Injury Near Miss Total
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2019 2020 2021 2022
Fire Incident Material Injury Near Miss Total

===== PAGE 39 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 38  
Incident Comparison – Organization versus Process Plant 
 
Figure 6 and Figure 7 illustrate the incident trends across the organization. Most recently, 
it can be noted that the organization overall saw a 9% reduction in incidents between 
2021 and 2022, while the process plant was successful in reducing  incidents 27% YoY. 
This can be attributed in part to the effectiveness of the microlearning program. 
 
Similarly, the process plant saw a 39% increase in near miss reporting,  which is good 
news. An increase in near miss reporting means that the process plant wa s able to pro-
actively resolve hazards before a costly incident occurs. The organization incurred a 20% 
decrease in near misses reported.  
 
The process plant was also successful in reducing incident materials by 60%. Table 4  
below gives a YoY comparison summary of incidents incurred across the organization 
versus the process plant, where microlearning took place.  
 
Table 4: Incident summary YoY % (January-September) change   
Meliadine (w/o PP) Process Plant  
2019 2020 2021 2022 YoY % 2019 2020 2021 2022 YoY% 
Fire 7 15 18 14 -22% 3 1 1 0 -100% 
Incident 
Material 
166 119 183 145 -21% 12 12 20 8 -60% 
Injury 344 298 252 268 6% 71 51 42 26 -38% 
Near Miss 82 69 134 107 -20%   18 25 39% 
Total 
Incidents 
599 501 587 534 -9% 98 71 81 59 -27% 
 
Injuries 
Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the trends across the process plant and the organization.  
 
Figure 8: Process plant annual injuries by type (January-September) 
 
 
  
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
75
2019 2020 2021 2022
Lost Time Light Duty Medical Aid First Aid Reported/minor Total Injuries

===== PAGE 40 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 39  
Figure 9: Organization annual injuries by type (January-September) 
 
 
Injury Comparison – Organization versus Process Plant 
 
During the time of Microlearning  delivery the process plant saw 29% decrease in total 
injuries while the number of injuries increased by 3% at Meliadine operations overall 
indicating the microlearning is having a positive impact on the behaviours of the 
participants. Table 5 provides a YoY comparison summary on injury rates.  
 
Table 5: Injury summary YoY % change   
  Meliadine (w/o PP)   Process Plant  
2019 2020 2021 2022 YoY % 2019 2020 2021 2022 YoY% 
Lost Time 7 13 3 6 50% 1 0 0 0 - 
Light Duty 9 3 2 0 N/A 0 0 0 0 - 
Medical Aid 21 18 8 10 25% 3 1 0 1 N/A 
First Aid 241 221 175 205 17% 56 40 34 23 -32% 
Reported/minor 67 49 71 47 -34% 11 10 8 6 -25% 
Total Injuries 344 298 259 268 3% 71 51 42 30 -29% 
 
 
While impact of microlearning has been observed,  it is too early to effectively measure 
and evaluate the microlearning model on the basis of incidents and injuries in the 
organization. Based on the data , behavioural change has occurred and through the next 
evaluation we will determine if these behaviours continue to progress.  
 
5.2.4 Improved employee moral  
Microlearning was successful in providing employees and coaches with the opportunity 
for engagement and collaboration, both during training sessions  and throughout the 
workday. The training videos were helpful in generating and guiding discussion between 
employees and coaches. 
 
In addition to providing the organization with a safety -based training program, 
employees and coaches acknowledged that microlearning was beneficial for the culture 
of the organization. Employees appreciate the efforts being put towards workplace 
0255075100125150175200225250275300325350375
2019 2020 2021 2022
Lost Time Light Duty Medical Aid First Aid Reported/minor Total Injuries

===== PAGE 41 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 40  
health and safety in the organization, and it has given them the confidence to speak up if 
something is not right for the benefit of themselves and others.  
 
“It made me more aware of things I wouldn’t watch for, so I am satisfied.”  
- Employee  
 
“It taught me to be more diligent on my safety and safety of others in a daily basis, be more 
assertive when it is a question of safety.” 
- Employee  
 
“I learned a lot to help others, and how I can speak up to others.” 
- Employee  
 
Coaches and leaders echoed that employees have demonstrated more of an eye for 
workplace health and safety and are working with each other to foster a safe working 
environment for everyone.  
 
“I have noticed that employees are more vigilant and talking to each other about health and 
safety in a preventive way.” 
- Coach  
 
5.3 RETURN ON INVESTMENT  
 
Background 
In order to conduct a return -on-investment analysis for microlearning at Agnico, the 
framework used is outlined.  
 
To understand the impact and returns from the new training program being 
implemented, the trends and changes in workplace safety and accidents are  examined. 
Using estimates on the costs of various incident types from the literature in order to 
assign economic value to any reduction in accident and increased safety that may have 
resulted since microlearning took place. Contrasting any savings against the salaries paid 
to employees for their time in the microlearning trainings each day, the value of the 
program can be understood.  
 
Safety and Accidents  
Data provided from Agnico outlines various types of injuries, as well as fire occurrences 
at the site. Data was analyzed January through September, for the years beginning 2019 
until 2022.  
 
  

===== PAGE 42 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 41  
Employer Cost of Injuries and Accidents  
Several types of injuries  and accidents were reported in the data, with varying severity 
over the time period covered. See Table 4 for summary.  
 
Table 6: Meliadine PP Injuries and Accidents Reported January-September  
Type Y2019 Y2020 Y2021 Y2022 
Lost Time 1 0 0 0 
Light Duty 0 0 0 0 
Medical Aid 3 1 0 1 
First Aid  56 40 34 23 
Reported 11 10 8 6 
Total 71 51 42 30 
 
In the table we see various types of injuries listed. In order to assign costing, the following 
have been defined: 
• Reported: minor injuries that did not require first aid or medical aid (scratches, 
paper cuts, etc.)  
• First Aid : incidents which required attention but was dealt with onsite and the 
individual could return to work shortly 
• Medical Aid : incidents which required medica l attention outside of the job site, 
losing the remainder of the day’s work 
• Lost Time Accident : incidents which require an individual to miss time at work 
beyond the day of the incident due to their injury 
• Light duty: incidents which require an individual to modify their job tasks, as they 
cannot perform their usual duties due to an incident  
 
Estimating the Costs of Occupational Injuries: A Feasibility Study in the Mining 
Industry is a 2013 study designed to develop economic indicators for occupational 
health and safety. It focuses on the mining industry making it particularly relevant in 
estimating the costs for the above injury types. Please note: the dollar values in the study 
are reported in 2006 CAD dollars, therefore after summarizing the findings, dollar values 
are adjusted for inflation to 2020 dollars. 
 
For near misses we look to administrative costs of incident reporting, which Lambeau et 
al (2013) (the above report) report an average cost of $513.16 in 2006 dollars.  It was 
found that onsite first aid costs are  $11.85. Therefore, it is assumed that an employee 
misses one hour of productive work. With the reported average salary from Agnico of 
$138,000 and a schedule of 26 weeks/year, 7 days/week, 12 hours/day we have hourly 
earnings of $63.19. 

===== PAGE 43 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 42  
Transportation costs are reportedly $177.03 in 2006 dollars on average to take an 
employee to a medical facility. For missing the remainder of the day’s work, with no data 
on when in the shift an employee would be hurt, it is assumed  on average that the 
employee misses half-day. Given the hourly rate of $63.19, missing half of their shift due 
to injury equates to $ 379.12 in lost pay to the employer. Lam beau et al (2013) also 
estimate that injuries on average put the employer on the hook for $2710.80 in 2006 
dollars for covering medical costs. 
 
Lost time accidents produce significantly greater costs. Losing an employee for extended 
time can mean having to adjust other employee schedules, having other employees work 
overtime to make up productivity, legal costs, more extensive benefit s and medical 
costs, and other associated costs. Using the costs to employers reported in Lambeau et 
al (2013), we find the a verage cost to employers of a lost time occupational injury to be 
$30,868.52 in 2006 dollars. This cost can vary significantly depending on the nature of 
any given injury. 
 
After converting all the costs into consistent 2020 dollars and totalling, the following 
employer costs for each type of injury are reporting (Table 5). 
 
Table 7: Employer Cost Estimates 
Type Cost ($) 
Reported $643.33 
First Aid $692.53 
Medical Aid $4,484.60 
Lost Time Accident $38,698.72 
 
Fires  
Fire are relatively rare events but can prove very costly. While the cost of damage can 
vary significantly based on the severity of any given fire,  Fires in Industrial and 
Manufacturing Properties  provides valuable estimates of avera ge damages caused by 
fires in various settings. 
 
Looking particularly at fires in structures, in manufacturing or processing settings, 
Campbell (2018) estimates the average fire produces $106,299 in direct damages. 
 
Safety Cost Savings 
In order to build some robustness into our data around the rate of incidents, we average 
incidents that occurred between January and September  2019-2021 as pre -
microlearning years. Data for January to September  2022 is considered  post-
microlearning period. 
Figure 10: Injury and Accident Rates Pre (2019-2021) and Post (2022) Microlearning  

===== PAGE 44 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 43  
 
 
Table 8: Savings by Incident Type 
 
Figure 9: Savings by Incident Type 
Employee Time Costs  
The microlearning program required employees to complete approximately 13.5 
minutes of training daily. The program was six months long, and conducted at Agnico 
9.7
43.3
1.3 0.3 2.6
6
23
1 0 0
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
Reported First Aid Medical Aid Lost Time Accident Fire
Pre Post
 Pre Post Cost per incident Change Total Savings (dollars) 
Reported 9.7 6 $643.33 3.7 $2,380.32 
First Aid 43.3 23 $692.53 20.3 $14,058.36 
Medical Aid 1.3 1 $4,484.60 0.3 $1,345.38 
Lost Time Accident 0.3 0 $38,698.72 0.3 $11,609.61 
Fire 2.6 0 $106299.21 2.6 $276,377.92 
Total  $305,771.59 
$2,380.32 $14,058.36 $1,345.38 $11,609.61 
$276,377.92 
$0
$50,000
$100,000
$150,000
$200,000
$250,000
$300,000
Reported First Aid Medical Aid Lost Time Accident Fire

===== PAGE 45 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 44  
over January 1 st, 2022, to June 30 th, 2022. The period  of microlearning  includes 90 
working days, where eight to ten employees attend daily . It is assumed  on average that 
nine employees attend and once again the average reported salary of $138,000, or 
$63.19/hour is used. 
 
This leads to an approximation that the program produced  consumed -, and the salary 
cost to Agnico of $11,519.54 over the lifetime of the training program. 
 
Conclusions 
After accounting for the lost salary time, it was found that the reduction in fires and 
injuries after the microlearning program resulted in employer savings of approximately 
$294,252.41.  
 
6.0 RECOMMENDATIONS   
 
As Training Works looks to implement microlearning across other departments within 
Agnico and externally, it is important to leverage the feedback from this pilot phase to 
enhance the relevance and effectiveness of the program. Looking forward, it is 
recommended to consider the following: 
 
Implement microlearning specific training sessions 
The delivery model of microlearning was found to be limiting to both employees and 
coaches. Daily trainings were  deemed as too frequent, and there was limited time to 
show and discuss the videos in daily toolbox talks.  
 
“We are bound by time and operation. Daily is too much. It’s also a lot of messages at once 
for employees.”  
- Coach  
 
While consistent health and safety trainings are important, there is opportunity to make 
for a better experience for employees and coaches. It is recommended to alter the 
frequency of trainings and increase the amount of time set allotted for microlearning 
trainings to allow for discussion. For example,  one five minute video at the beginning of 
the week followed up by guided discussions and other forms of microlearning on the 
same topic throughout the week to allow for continued learning and communication 
around the safety topic. .  The safety behaviour of focus for th e rotation would continue 
to be discussed in toolbox talks along with usual daily operational topics. 
 
“I know phase 2 is in discussion. But everyday makes it too much to cover in our meeting. It 
needs to be implemented at a different pace.” 
- Coach  
 

===== PAGE 46 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 45  
Communicate the intent of microlearning to levelset employee expectations  
Microlearning is best suited and leveraged as daily reminders to commute knowledge 
into behaviour as opposed to teaching brand new skills. Ensuring that employees 
understand the intent and outcomes of the microlearning model will help with learner 
engagement moving forwards. The microlearning  delivery model was found to be 
effective, it didn’t capture the interest of more experienced employees.  While the model 
keeps safety top- of-mind, it didn’t deliver on experienced employee’s expectations of 
learning about new safety topics or behaviours they can apply.  
 
“Because I’m at the end of my career and I have seen a lot in my life and went through lots 
of training similar to this one.” 
- Employee  
 
Coaches also highlighted that microlearning was less relevant t o employees with 
experience in the industry.  
 
“I feel like it’s more geared to industry newcomers, and not the broad workforce we have 
here.”  
- Coach 
 
“I was pumped at the beginning; I like the idea of the videos. The content itself was childish, 
and obvious skills like communication. Some people have 30-40 years of experience. As a 
coach I still had to present it and we did it until the end.”  
- Coach 
 
Therefore, it is recommended to target employees new to the industry or with limited 
experience (e.g., summer students, new hires, etc.) using a behaviour -based workplace 
health and safety training model. For more experienced employees, it is recommended 
to investigate engagement and learning needs, and set expectations for microlearning 
serving as a safety reminder/refresher.  
 
 
“A regular toolbox meeting is good enough. With this microlearning we end up skipping the 
Meliadine minute which is more relevant than the microlearning. Microlearning should only 
be done to people who are new.” 
- Employee 
 
Find new ways to engage more experienced workers  
While microlearning provided more experienced employees with limited new learnings, 
it did serve as a reminder to the importance of behavioural skills in creating a safe 
workplace. 
 
 

===== PAGE 47 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 46  
“Microlearning is good for summer students who don’t have experience. For us it was boring 
and repetitive. It was more of a reminder than anything for me.” 
- Employee  
 
Therefore, it is important to investigate ways to engage more experienced workers, as a 
behaviour-based traini ng remains highly important and relevant to the industry. With 
many incidents and injuries occurring as a result of an experienced worker becoming 
complacent, alternative delivery models may pique their interest  and heighten 
engagement with this audience.  
 
Use human actors/actresses to elevate professionalism 
While it didn’t take away from the learnings of microlearning, the use of cartoons 
impeded on the appeal and relevance. Mentors and coaches noted that some employees 
were less attentive to the videos because of the “childish” animation. 
 
“The animation is too basic and childlike. The training videos need to have a “real life” feel 
to them.” 
- Leader 
 
“The cartoons led some of the more experienced guys to not take the videos seriously.”  
- Coach  
 
Consequently, it is recommended to utilize human actors/actresses in the microlearning 
training videos to elevate professionalism and broaden the appeal for industrial works of 
all ages and skill levels.   
 
Include job-specific examples to enhance relevance    
As not all microlearning training videos are relevant to all positions, and some employees 
lacked the ability to make the connection between the competencies covered in the 
training and their day-to-day job in mining. 
 
“Most incidents are behaviour related; therefore behaviour-based training makes sense. Just 
need to ensure it applies to our organization.” 
- Coach  
 
“To have an impact, we need to have something more adaptable. At the end, we combined 
the videos with the reality we have on site and the feedback was better. Involve more actual 
workers on-site in the videos will be more relevant and impactful.”  
- Coach 
 
To further the impact of microlearning, it is recommended to include more job -specific 
examples in the training videos  and follow -up disc ussions. This would help to 
demonstrate how the behaviours covered in microlearning can be applied in the 
workplace as safety prevention tactics. 

===== PAGE 48 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 47  
 
“I need to see real life scenarios that are plant related. Not the common communication 
skills like closed loop conversation topic, but real deal events.” 
- Employee  
 
While the above recommendations would further the effectiveness of microlearning, it 
was acknowledged to be impactful in its pilot phase with the organization and is seen as 
a scalable program within and beyond the mining industry.  
 
“The microlearning structure is really good, I see good potential for this.” 
- Leader 
 
7.0 CONCLUSION 
 
Microlearning was designed ensure that mining employees receive the right training to 
do their job on a continuous basis. These employees are limited in the amount of time 
they can spend away to receive training, the development of this microlearning program 
and delivery model was to combat this constraint while ensuring knowledge transfer and 
behavioural change.  
 
Overall, the pilot phase of microlearning completed at Agnico was found to be successful 
in achieving the outputs and immediate outcomes outlined in the Theory of Change. By 
taking the recommendations provided into consideration, there is opportuni ty to 
optimize and enhance the effectiveness of microlearning  to scale it across other 
organizations.  
 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 49 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 48  
APPENDIX A: KEY INFORMANT 
INTERVIEW DISCUSSION GUIDE  
 
Hello, 
 
My name is [NAME], and I work for [COMPANY]. Thank you for taking the time to speak 
to me today.  
 
The discussion we will have today is for research and evaluation purposes only; there are 
no right or wrong answers. So, I want you to speak freely, share whatever is on your mind 
and share your personal perspective!  
 
To help me document the research, I will be recording our conversation; however, I want 
to assure you that everything you say during this conversation is strictly anonymous. 
Your name and any id entifying information about you will not be shared outside of the 
research team.  
 
Our discussion today will last approximately [TIME] minutes.  
 
Do you have any questions before we begin? I will now turn on the recording 
 
Participants  
 
1. To start off, tell me a little about yourself  – your job title, description, length of time 
with the company, years of experience, and some of your experience before joining.  
 
Note: Fill in below 
 
Name: 
Job title: 
Job description: 
Demographic information: 
-Age 
-Gender 
-Location/Company  
-Years of experience in current position 
-Years of experience in previous positions within industry 
 
 
Relevance & Design and Delivery  
 
2. What were you hoping to learn in this program?  
a. Did you achieve these goals? 

===== PAGE 50 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 49  
b. If not, what would have helped you?  
 
 
3. How did the program relate to your role within the organization? 
a. How will you apply the skills learned to stay safe at work? 
b. Thinking of the topics covered, what was the most relevant for you? Least 
relevant? 
c. Are there other to pic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that you 
would have liked to learn about?  
 
 
4. Please share with me your level of satisfaction with the model  of the program (5 
minutes of training per day while on shift and receive feedback and support from 
coaches)– very satisfied, somewhat satisfied, not satisfied.  
a. Tell me why. 
b. Is there anything you would change in the delivery of the program?  
 
Outcomes  
 
5. How has the microlearning program helped you in your role at the organization?  
a. Has it changed the way you do your job? Or how you approach workplace 
safety?  
b. How do you think the program has helped your organization overall? Probe on 
incidents, near misses, rules/educational resources.  
 
6. What was the most impactful thing you learned in this program?  
a. How will it help you in your job?  
 
7. Moving forward, are there any changes  you would like to see made to the 
microlearning program? 
 
Thank you for your time today. That is all of my questions. Do you have any other 
thoughts, comments or suggestions before we wrap up today?  
 
Thanks again and have a great day!   
 
Coaches 
 
1. To start off, tell me a little about yourself – your job title, description, length of time 
with the company, and some of your experience. 
 
Note: Fill in below 
 
Name: 
Job title: 
Job description: 

===== PAGE 51 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 50  
 
Relevance & Design and Delivery  
2. What was your organization hoping to get out of this program?  
a. Did the organization achieve these goals? 
b. If not, what would have helped to meet these goals? 
 
3. Was the program relevant to your organization’s needs? 
a. Thinking of the topics covered, what was the most relevant to your 
organization? Least relevant? 
b. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that 
would have been useful?  
 
4. Please share with me your level of satisfaction with the model of the program (5 
minutes of training per day while on shift and receive feedback and support from 
coaches)– very satisfied, somewhat satisfied, not satisfied.  
a. Tell me why. 
b. Is there anything you would change in the delivery of the program?  
 
Outcomes  
 
5. How has the microlearning program helped your organization?  
a. Has it changed the approach to workplace safety?  
b. How do you think the program has had an i mpact on the organization? 
Probe on incidents, near misses, rules/educational resources.  
c. Have you noticed any changes in the culture of the organization? Probe on 
observed impacts (e.g., more coach/participant interactions occurring). 
 
6. What is your biggest takeaway from the program?  
a. How will the organization implement these safety skills and practices 
moving forward? 
 
 
7. Are there any changes you would like to see made to the microlearning program? 
 
 
Thank you for your time today. That is all of my questions. Do you have any other 
thoughts, comments or suggestions before we wrap up today?  
 
Thanks again and have a great day!   
 
Leaders 
 
1. To start off, tell me a little about yourself – your job title, description, length of time 
with the company, and some of your experience. 
 
Note: Fill in below 

===== PAGE 52 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 51  
 
Name: 
Job title: 
Job description: 
 
Relevance & Design and Delivery  
 
2. What was your organization hoping to get out of this program?  
a. Did the organization achieve these goals? 
b. If not, what would have helped to meet these goals? 
 
3. Was the program relevant to your organization’s needs? 
a. Thinking of the topics covered, what was the most relevant to your 
organization? Least relevant? 
b. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that 
would have been useful?  
 
4. Please share with me your level of satisfaction with the model of the program (5 
minutes of training per day while on shift and receive feedback and support from 
coaches)– very satisfied, somewhat satisfied, not satisfied.  
a. Tell me why. 
b. Is there anything you would change in the delivery of the program?  
 
5. As a Leader is there anything that could have been done to support you better in 
implementing this program within your organization? (more training, continuous 
support etc.) 
 
6. Have you noticed a difference in how your organization views safety? 
 
7. What have been the biggest challenges in implementing this program? 
 
8. How would you address these challenges moving forward? 
 
9. Would you invest in a program like this in the future? 
10. If not, why? 
 
Outcomes  
 
11. How has the microlearning program helped your organization?  
a. Has it changed the approach to workplace safety and how you think about 
it.  
b. How do you think the program has had an impact on the organization? 
Probe on incidents, near misses, rules/educational resources. Safety 
culture and coaching culture 
 
12. What is your biggest takeaway from the program?  

===== PAGE 53 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 52  
a. How will the organization implement these safety skills and practices 
moving forward? 
 
13. Are there any changes you would like to see made to the microlearning program?  
 
Thank you for your time today. That is all of my questions. Do you have any other 
thoughts, comments or suggestions before we wrap up today?  
 
Thanks again and have a great day!   
 
  

===== PAGE 54 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 53  
APPENDIX B: BEHAVIOURAL 
ASSESSMENT (PRE AND POST 
SURVEY) 
Question: Below is a list of behavioural topics that have been covered during the 
program. Please read each one carefully and then rate where you think your current 
behaviours are on a scale from 1-5. (1 - you never do this behaviour to 5 - you always take 
part in this behaviour) 
Competency Description 
Mindfulness Mindfulness is being present in the moment. You think about the outcomes 
of your actions before you finish the task. You think about the impact of your 
words before you say them. 
Vigilance Vigilance means to keep your focus and stay alert while doing tasks at work. 
To be safe at work you must always keep an eye on the people, the 
machines, and your work site. 
Active Listening You listen to understand the speaker’s message. 
Effective Inquiry You ask questions with purpose. 
Closed Loop 
Communication 
You use a 3 -step process when you speak. You state the message, you wait 
for the listener to tell you their version of the message and you confirm when 
they are correct. 
Assertiveness You make sure your message is heard and addressed. 
Strategic Decision 
Making 
You use a 5-step process to decide.  
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
3.  Consider your options 
4. Decide on a path forward 
5.  Evaluate your decision 
Team Building You are a part of a team working towards a goal. To reach the goal your team 
works well together and continue to improve and learn. 
Workload 
Management 
You understand how to manage your tasks with the team and goal in mind. 
If you are a manager or supervisor you are able to assign tasks to individuals 
based on their role in the company and skill level. 
Coaching Coaching is already a big part of day -to-day tasks at your company. By 
coaching others, you are sharing your know -how and skills. You help 
members of your team to become safe in the workplace. 
 

===== PAGE 55 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 54  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5% -
8%
67%
21%
- -
12%
53%
35%
- - 4%
83%
13%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Mindfulness
Pre Post Follow-Up
5% - -
49% 46%
- - 3%
41%
56%
- - 4%
48% 48%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Vigilance
Pre Post Follow-Up
8%
-
15%
44%
33%
- - 3%
47% 50%
- -
13%
52%
35%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Active Listening
Pre Post Follow-Up

===== PAGE 56 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 55  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5% -
15%
49%
31%
- - 3%
32%
65%
- 4% 9%
39%
48%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Effective Inquiry 
Pre Post Follow-Up
5% 3%
18%
50%
24%
- - 3%
53%
44%
- -
18%
43% 39%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Closed Loop Communication
Pre Post Follow-Up
5% -
13%
41% 41%
- - 6%
62%
32%
- -
13%
52%
35%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Assertiveness
Pre Post Follow-Up

===== PAGE 57 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 56  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5% -
8%
59%
28%
- - 6%
62%
32%
- -
13%
57%
30%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Strategic Decision Making
Pre Post Follow-Up
5% -
13%
38% 44%
- - 6%
44% 50%
- -
13%
52%
35%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Team Building
Pre Post Follow-Up
5% - 5%
50%
39%
- - 3%
33%
64%
- -
9%
39%
52%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Workload Management
Pre Post Follow-Up

===== PAGE 58 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 57  
 
  
5% -
15%
31%
49%
- - 6%
35%
59%
- - 4%
44%
52%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Coaching
Pre Post Follow-Up

===== PAGE 59 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 58  
APPENDIX C: SURVEY RESULTS  
Pre-Survey (N=37) 
1. Were you given enough details about the microlearning program that you feel 
comfortable to begin? 
 Yes No 
Agnico (N=37) 70%(26) 30%(11) 
 
2. What are you hoping to learn from this microlearning program?  
• Safety 
• Communication 
• Increase efficiency on the job 
• Get others thinking more about their safety behaviour  
• Not sure   
 
3. On a scale from 1- 5, from what you know about this microlearning program, do 
you feel this program will relate to your role within the organization?  
• SCALE 1 (not at all) - 5 (very) 
 Average 
Agnico (N=37) 2.3 
 
• Why did you give this rating?  
Agnico 
I know very little about the content of the program. 
Too new, has not started yet. 
I always pay attention to safety, also supervise in my role, so will be helpful to have 
everyone to focus on safety. The more information the better. 
 
 
 
4. How do you think the s kills you learn through this program will help you stay safe 
at work? 
Agnico 
Daily reminders of safety tips that we might not think of 
By opening our eyes on some safety issues 
Make me put things in perspective 
 
5. For this program you will complete about 5 m inutes of training per day while on 
shift and receive feedback and support from coaches. How would you rate your 
satisfaction with this training model? 

===== PAGE 60 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 59  
 Not 
Satisfied Somewhat Satisfied Very Satisfied  
Agnico (N=38) 16%(6) 61%(23) 23%(9) 
 
• Why did you give this rating? Would you prefer to see a different model? If so, what 
would you prefer? 
Agnico 
I mean, again we will need to see how it affect our day-to-day work flow. 
Never tried it I will know after the training. 
I’m open minded, haven’t even seen the program yet so can’t give an opinion. 
Hard to comment on training that I have no knowledge or info. 
 
6. Below is a list of behavioural topics that will be covered  during the program. 
Please read each one carefully and then rate where you think your c urrent 
behaviours are on a scale from 1 (you never do this behaviour) to 5 (you always 
take part in this behaviour).  
 
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Mindfulness: 
Mindfulness is being 
present in the 
moment. You think 
about the outcomes of 
your actions before 
you finish the task. You 
think about the impact 
of your words before 
you say them. 
5%(2) - 8%(3) 67%(26) 21%(8) 
Vigilance: Vigilance 
means to keep your 
focus and stay alert 
while doing tasks at 
work. To be safe at 
work you must always 
keep an eye on the 
people, the machines, 
and your work site. 
5%(2) - - 49%(19) 46%(18) 
Active Listening: You 
listen to understand 
the speaker’s message. 
8%(3) - 15%(6) 44%(17) 33%(13) 
Effective Inquiry: You 
ask questions with 
purpose. 
5%(2) - 15%(6) 49%(19) 31%(12) 

===== PAGE 61 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 60  
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Closed Loop 
Communication: You 
use a 3 -step process 
when you speak. You 
state the message, you 
wait for the listener to 
tell you their version of 
the message and you 
confirm when they are 
correct. 
5%(2) 3%(1) 18%(7) 50% (19) 24%(9) 
Assertiveness: You 
make sure your 
message is hear d and 
addressed. 
5%(2) - 13%(5) 41%(16) 41% (16) 
Strategic Decision 
Making: You use a 5 -
step process to decide. 
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
3.  Consider your 
options 
4. Decide on a path 
forward 
5.  Evaluate your 
decision 
5%(2) - 8%(3) 59%(23) 
 
 
 
28% (11) 
 
 
 
Team Building:  You 
are a part of a team 
working towards a 
goal. To reach the goal 
your team works well 
together and continue 
to improve and learn. 
5%(2) - 13%(5) 38%(15) 44%(17) 
Workload 
Management: You 
understand how to 
manage your tasks 
with the team and goal 
in mind . If you are a 
manager or supervisor 
you are able to assign 
tasks to individuals 
based on their role in 
the company and skill 
level. 
5%(2) - 5%(2)       50%(19) 39%(15) 

===== PAGE 62 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 61  
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Coaching: Coaching is 
already a big part of 
day-to-day tasks at 
your company. By 
coaching others, you 
are sharing your know-
how and skills. You 
help members of your 
team to become safe in 
the workplace. 
5%(2) - 15%(6) 31% (12) 49% (19) 
 
7. Thinking of the topics you just reviewed and your job position, what are you 
looking forward to the most over the course of your program? 
Agnico 
Mindfulness is definitely something I want to work on. 
Good communication is very important. 
Having more skills related to safety. 
 
8. What are you looking forward to the least? 
Agnico 
Nothing. Always open to new things. I see this being very beneficial if properly organized. 
The user experience on the app is a bit rough so far. Fighting with the forms is definitely 
something I am not to thrilled by. 
The amount of time this might take. 
9. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that you would 
like to learn about during this program? If so, please list them below. 
Agnico 
I need to start and understand more of that program. 
So far, it looks as though all the major topics are covered. I’m satisfied to date. 
10. Gender  
Agnico % (N) 
Female 3%(1) 
Male  97%(38) 
Prefer not to answer - 
I prefer to identify as ____ - 
 
11. How old are you?  
Agnico % (N) 
Prefer not to answer - 
Younger than 15 - 
Between 15 and 29 years old 23% (9) 
Between 30 and 44 years old 33% (13) 
Between 45 and 65 years old 41% (16) 

===== PAGE 63 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 62  
Agnico % (N) 
Older than 65 3% (1) 
 
12. Which of the following best describes your current relationship status? (N=99) 
Agnico % (N) 
Single 15% (6) 
In a relationship 41% (16) 
Married 28% (11) 
Divorced 8% (3) 
Widowed - 
Prefer not to answer 8% (3) 
 
13. How many members of your household, including yourself, are in each of these 
age groups?  
Agnico (N) 
Adult 18+ (including yourself) 70 
Child age (0-17) 24 
 
14. What is the highest level of education you have completed? (N=98) 
Agnico % (N) 
Some high school or less 10% (4) 
Graduated high school 38% (15) 
Some college or university 15% (6) 
College or university graduate 18% (7)  
Some postgraduate work - 
Completed post-graduate education 8% (3) 
Prefer not to answer 10% (4) 
 
 
15. Which of the following best describes your current employment status? 
Agnico % (N) 
Employed full-time 79% (31) 
Employed part-time 3% (1) 
Contractual 18% (7) 
Other (please specify):  
 
16. Do you identify as someone with a disability?  
Agnico % (N) 
Yes 10% (4) 
No 82% (32) 
Prefer not to say 8% (3) 
 
Post-Survey (N= 34)  
1. What did you learn in the microlearning program?  
 

===== PAGE 64 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 63  
Agnico 
A refresher on safety and communication delivery methods. 
Communication is key to safety.. if unsure ask supervisor or someone who knows. Do 
NOT be shy to bring up safety concerns. 
It was more a reminder program than a learning one. 
 
2. Has the microlearning program helped to remind you of the things you should be 
watching for and doing to be safe when you begin work for the day? 
Agnico 
Before working it's help for thinking more about the task. 
Remind focus on safety, all small things that can help. 
Pay more attention to my surroundings. 
 
3. How do you think the skills you have learned through this program so far, have 
helped you stay safe at work? 
Agnico 
Make us more vigilant with our surroundings and coworkers. 
It has helped with reminding me to ask for help when I'm lost or confused with the job. 
This program is good for new employees coming into the industry. 
 
4. For this program you will complete about 5 minutes of training per day while on shift 
and receive feedback and support from coaches. How would you rate your 
satisfaction with this training model? 
 Very 
Dissatisfied 
Somewhat 
Dissatisfied 
Neutral Somewhat 
Satisfied 
Very 
Satisfied  
Agnico 
(N=34) 12%(4) 12%(4) 38%(13) 32%(11) 6%(2) 
 
• Why did you give this rating? Would you prefer to see a different model? If so, what 
would you prefer? 
Agnico 
I think we will need training reminder more specific to our job. 
My only concern was that we did most of these training at the beginning of the day, but if 
you were on night shift, it was hard to stay focus on the subject. 
Id like to see something more relav ant with the process plant itself. Eliminate the 
cartoons completely.  
 
5. Below is a list of behavioural topics that will be covered  during the program. Please 
read each one carefully and then rate where you think your current behaviours are 
on a scale from 1 (you never do this behaviour) to 5 (you always take part in this 
behaviour).  
 
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Mindfulness: 
Mindfulness is being - - 12%(4) 53%(18) 35%(12) 

===== PAGE 65 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 64  
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
present in the moment. 
You think about the 
outcomes of your 
actions before you 
finish the task. You 
think about the impact 
of your words before 
you say them. 
Vigilance: Vigilance 
means to keep your 
focus and stay alert 
while doing tasks at 
work. To be safe at 
work you must always 
keep an eye on the 
people, the machines, 
and your work site. 
- - 3%(1) 41%(14) 56%(19) 
Active Listening:  You 
listen to understand 
the speaker’s message. 
- - 3%(1) 47%(16) 50%(17) 
Effective Inquiry: You 
ask questions with 
purpose. 
- - 3%(1) 32%(11) 65%(22) 
Closed Loop 
Communication: You 
use a 3 -step process 
when you speak. You 
state the message, you 
wait for the listener to 
tell you their version of 
the message and you 
confirm when they are 
correct. 
- 3%(1) 12%(4) 59%(20) 26%(9) 
Assertiveness: You 
make sure your 
message is heard and  
addressed. 
- - 3%(1) 53%(18) 44%(15) 
Strategic Decision 
Making: You use a 5-
step process to decide. 
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
3.  Consider your 
options 
- - 6%(2) 62%(21) 
 
 
 
32%(11) 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 66 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 65  
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
4. Decide on a path 
forward 
5.  Evaluate your 
decision 
Team Building:  You 
are a part of a team 
working towards a 
goal. To reach the goal 
your team works well 
together and continue 
to improve and learn. 
- - 6%(2) 44%(15) 50%(17) 
Workload 
Management: You 
understand how to 
manage your tasks 
with the team and goal 
in mind. If you are a 
manager or supervisor 
you are able to assign 
tasks to individuals 
based on their role in 
the company and skill 
level. 
- - 3%(1)       33%(11) 64%(21) 
Coaching: Coaching is 
already a big part of 
day-to-day tasks at 
your company. By 
coaching others, you 
are sharing your know-
how and skills. You 
help members of your 
team to become safe in 
the workplace. 
- - 6%(2) 35%(12) 59% (20) 
 
6. Overall, how satisfied are you with the microlearning program? 
 Very 
Dissatisfied 
Somewhat 
Dissatisfied 
Neutral Somewhat 
Satisfied 
Very 
Satisfied  
Agnico 
(N=34) 9%(3) 18%(6) 32%(11) 41%(14) - 
 
7. Based on your experience in the program, how likely are you to recommend 
someone else to the program? 

===== PAGE 67 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 66  
 Very 
Unlikely Unlikely Neutral Likely Very Likely 
Agnico 
(N=34) 18%(6) 15%(5) 37%(13) 24%(8) 6%(2) 
 
8. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that you would 
like to learn about during this program? If so, please list them below. 
Agnico 
Yes, real life scenarios... Process plant related. Not the common communication , closed 
loop conversation topic but real deal events. 
Topics directly related to the task at hand. 
Useful skills and lessons in the workplace relevant to our jobs. 
9. Gender  
Agnico % (N) 
Female - 
Male 94% (32) 
Prefer not to answer 6% (2) 
I prefer to identify as ____ - 
 
10. How old are you?  
Agnico % (N) 
Prefer not to answer 6% (2) 
Younger than 15 - 
Between 15 and 29 years old 38% (13) 
Between 30 and 44 years old 35% (12) 
Between 45 and 65 years old 21% (7) 
Older than 65 -  
 
11. Which of the following best describes your current relationship status?  
Agnico % (N) 
Single 24% (8) 
In a relationship 38% (13) 
Married 32% (11) 
Divorced - 
Widowed - 
Prefer not to answer 6% (2) 
 
12. How many members of your household, including yourself, are in each of these age 
groups?  
Agnico (N) 
Adult 18+ (including yourself) Average 2.5/HH 
Child age (0-17) 9 HH – Average 1.5/HH 
 
13. What is the highest level of education you have completed?  

===== PAGE 68 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 67  
Agnico % (N) 
Some high school or less 12% (4) 
Graduated high school 14% (5) 
Some college or university 18% (6) 
College or university graduate 35% (12)  
Some postgraduate work 3% (1) 
Completed post-graduate education 6% (2) 
Prefer not to answer 12% (4) 
14. Which of the following best describes your current employment status? 
Agnico % (N) 
Employed full-time 85% (29) 
Employed part-time - 
Contractual 9% (3) 
Other (please specify): - 
Prefer not to answer 6% (2) 
 
15. Since enrolling in the program, have you? 
Agnico (N=32)  % (N) 
Secured a new job  22% (7) 
Received a raise  6% (2) 
Received a promotion - 
Ended or lost employment - 
Other (please specify): 28% (9) 
Prefer not to answer 44% (14) 
 
16. Do you identify as someone with a disability?  
Agnico % (N) 
Yes - 
No 94% (32) 
Prefer not to say 6% (2) 
 
17. Do you identify as an Indigenous person (e.g., First Nations, Metis, Inuit)?   
Agnico % (N) 
Yes 20% (7) 
No 74% (25) 
Prefer not to say 6% (2) 
 
18. Which of the following (if any) apply to you?  
Agnico % (N) 
I first learned French at home and still speak it  47% (16) 
I can speak French well enough to conduct a 
conversation  6% (2) 
I speak French most often at home 18% (6) 
None of the above  29% (10) 
 

===== PAGE 69 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 68  
 
6-Month Follow-Up Survey (N=23) 
1. What did you learn in the microlearning program?  
Agnico 
Refresher on safety in the workplace.  
To stay focus and work safely.  
2. Has the microlearning program helped to remind you of the things you should be 
watching for and doing to be safe when you begin work for the day? 
Agnico 
Yes. 
Reminder to go step by step.  
3. How do you think the skills you have learned through this program so far, have 
helped you stay safe at work? 
Agnico 
It helped me identify safety hazards. 
A reminder of the importance of communication.  
4. For this program you will complete about 5 minutes of training per day while on shift 
and receive feedback and support from coaches. How would you rate your 
satisfaction with this training model? 
 Very 
Dissatisfied 
Somewhat 
Dissatisfied 
Neutral Somewhat 
Satisfied 
Very 
Satisfied  
Agnico 
(N=23) 9%(2) 22%(5) 52%(12) 13%(3) 4%(1) 
 
• Why did you give this rating? Would you prefer to see a different model? If so, what 
would you prefer? 
Agnico 
More training specific to our job. 
More advanced. 
More on field examples.  
5. Below is a list of behavioural topics that will be covered  during the program. Please 
read each one carefully and then rate where you think your current behaviours are 
on a scale from 1 (you never do this behaviour) to 5 (you always take part in this 
behaviour).  
 
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Mindfulness: 
Mindfulness is being 
present in the moment. 
You think about the 
outcomes of your 
actions before you 
finish the task. You 
think about the impact 
- - 4%(1) 83%(19) 13%(3) 

===== PAGE 70 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 69  
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
of your words before 
you say them. 
Vigilance: Vigilance 
means to keep your 
focus and stay alert 
while doing tasks at 
work. To be safe at 
work you must always 
keep an eye on the 
people, the machines, 
and your work site. 
- - 4%(1) 48%(11) 48%(11) 
Active Listening:  You 
listen to understand 
the speaker’s message. 
- - 13%(3) 52%(12) 35%(8) 
Effective Inquiry: You 
ask questions with 
purpose. 
- 4%(1) 9%(2) 39%(9) 48%(11) 
Closed Loop 
Communication: You 
use a 3 -step process 
when you speak. You 
state the message, you 
wait for the listener to 
tell you their version of 
the message and you 
confirm when they are 
correct. 
- - 18%(4) 43%(10) 39%(9) 
Assertiveness: You 
make sure your 
message is heard and 
addressed. 
- - 13%(3) 52%(12) 35%(8) 
Strategic Decision 
Making: You use a 5-
step process to decide. 
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
3.  Consider your 
options 
4. Decide on a path 
forward 
5.  Evaluate your 
decision 
- - 13%(3) 57%(13) 
 
 
 
30%(7) 
 
 
Team Building:  You 
are a part of a team - - 13%(3) 52%(12) 35%(8) 

===== PAGE 71 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 70  
Agnico Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
working towards a 
goal. To reach the goal 
your team works well 
together and continue 
to improve and learn. 
Workload 
Management: You 
understand how to 
manage your tasks 
with the team and goal 
in mind. If you are a 
manager or supervisor 
you are able to assign 
tasks to individuals 
based on their role in 
the company and skill 
level. 
- - 9%(2)       39%(9) 52%(12) 
Coaching: Coaching i s 
already a big part of 
day-to-day tasks at 
your company. By 
coaching others, you 
are sharing your know-
how and skills. You 
help members of your 
team to become safe in 
the workplace. 
- - 4%(1) 44%(10) 52% (12) 
 
6. Overall, how satisfied are you with the microlearning program? 
 
 Very 
Dissatisfied 
Somewhat 
Dissatisfied 
Neutral Somewhat 
Satisfied 
Very 
Satisfied  
Agnico 
(N=23) 13%(3) 30%(7) 39%(9) 18%(4) - 
 
7. Based on your experience in the program, how likely are you to recommend 
someone else to the program? 
 Very 
Unlikely Unlikely Neutral Likely Very Likely 
Agnico 
(N=23) 13%(3) 31%(7) 30%(7) 13%(3) 13%(3) 
 
8. Please rate how microlearning helped you in the following areas of development? 

===== PAGE 72 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 71  
 None A Little Somewhat  A Lot 
Knowledge 
of Safety -
Based 
Practices  
22%(5) 30%(7) 35%(8) 13%(3) 
Adopting 
Safety-
Based 
Behaviours 
on Site  
13%(3) 35%(8) 17%(4) 35%(8) 
 
9. How has completing the microlearning program impacted your job satisfaction in 
your current position?  
Agnico % (N) 
I am more satisfied 13% (3) 
Remined the same 83% (19) 
I am less satisfied  4% (1) 
 
10. Have you enrolled in any further training or education programs? 
Agnico % (N) 
Yes 13% (3) 
No 87% (20) 
 
11. Gender  
Agnico % (N) 
Female 4% (1) 
Male 83% (19) 
Prefer not to answer 13% (3) 
I prefer to identify as ____ - 
 
12. How old are you?  
Agnico % (N) 
Prefer not to answer 5% (1) 
Younger than 15 - 
Between 15 and 29 years old 22% (5) 
Between 30 and 44 years old 43% (10) 
Between 45 and 65 years old 30% (7) 
Older than 65 -  
 
13. Which of the following best describes your current relationship status?  
Agnico % (N) 
Single 22% (5) 
In a relationship 35% (8) 

===== PAGE 73 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 72  
Agnico % (N) 
Married 26% (6) 
Divorced 4% (1) 
Widowed - 
Prefer not to answer 13% (3) 
 
14. How many members of your household, including yourself, are in each of these age 
groups?  
Agnico (N) 
Adult 18+ (including yourself) Average 1.7/HH 
Child age (0-17) 4 HH – Average 1.75/HH 
 
15. What is the highest level of education you have completed?  
Agnico % (N) 
Some high school or less 4% (1) 
Graduated high school 13% (3) 
Some college or university 35% (8) 
College or university graduate 35% (8)  
Some postgraduate work - 
Completed post-graduate education 4% (1) 
Prefer not to answer 9% (2) 
 
16. Which of the following best describes your current employment status? 
Agnico % (N) 
Employed full-time 83% (19) 
Employed part-time - 
Contractual 4% (1) 
Other (please specify): - 
Prefer not to answer 13% (3) 
 
 
 
17. Since enrolling in the program, have you? 
Agnico  % (N) 
Secured a new job  9% (2) 
Received a raise  13% (3) 
Received a promotion 9% (2) 
Ended or lost employment - 
Other (please specify): 30% (7) 
Prefer not to answer 39% (9) 
 
18. Do you identify as someone with a disability?  
Agnico % (N) 
Yes - 
No 91% (21) 

===== PAGE 74 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 73  
Agnico % (N) 
Prefer not to say 9% (2) 
 
19. Do you identify as an Indigenous person (e.g., First Nations, Metis, Inuit)?   
Agnico % (N) 
Yes 17% (4) 
No 70% (16) 
Prefer not to say 13% (3) 
 
20. Which of the following (if any) apply to you?  
Agnico % (N) 
I first learned French at home and still speak it  48% (11) 
I can speak French well enough to conduct a 
conversation  9% (2) 
I speak French most often at home 9% (2) 
None of the above  34% (8) 
 
21. What is the name of the organization that employs you? 
 % (N) 
Agnico Eagle 100% (23) 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 75 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 74  
APPENDIX D: SUMMARY SAFETY 
STATS   
 
 
 
0
200
400
600
800
2019 2020 2021 2022
Total Incidents
Total Incidents MEL Total Incidents PP
0
200
400
600
2019 2020 2021 2022
Total Incidents w/o Near Misses
Total without NM MEL Total without NM PP
0
50
100
150
2019 2020 2021 2022
Near Miss Jan-Sept (yr/yr)
Near Miss MEL NM PP

===== PAGE 76 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 75  
 
0
50
100
150
200
2019 2020 2021 2022
Incident Material
Incident Material MEL Incident Material PP
0
5
10
15
20
2019 2020 2021 2022
Incident - Fire Jan-Sept yr/yr
Fire MEL Fire PP
0
100
200
300
400
2019 2020 2021 2022
Total Injuries Jan-Sept yr/yr
Injury MEL Injury PP
0
5
10
15
2019 2020 2021 2022
Injury - Lost Time Jan-Sept yr/yr
Lost Time MEL Lost Time PP

===== PAGE 77 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 76  
 
  
0
5
10
15
20
25
2019 2020 2021 2022
Injury - Medical Aid Jan-Sept yr/yr
Medical Aid MEL Medical Aid PP
0
100
200
300
2019 2020 2021 2022
Injury - First Aid Jan-Sept yr/yr
First Aid MEL First Aid PP
0
20
40
60
80
2019 2020 2021 2022
Injury - Reported Jan-Sept yr/yr
Reported/minor MEL Reported/minor PP

===== PAGE 78 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 77  
SIGNAL GOLD –  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
 
Background  
Today’s workplace is experiencing a shift in its learning environment. The operational 
reality of many industries limit the amount of time an employee can leave to train. 
Additionally, today’s employees need to be “adaptable learners” and they must be able  
to react very quickly to disruption and change, therefore learning must occur in a 
continuous, effective manner that focuses on behaviour change. The concept of short 
learning (microlearning), in line of work, either on a mobile phone or tablet was 
hypothesized to be an answer to these modern organizational learning challenges.  
To this end, Signal Gold (formerly Anaconda Mining), Agnico Eagle Mines, Training 
Works, and the Mining Industry Human Resources Council (MiHR) partnered to create 
a comprehensive workplace based microlearning delivery model that was piloted and 
evaluated on over 200 employees within two mining operations (Agnico Eagle Mines -
Nunavut, Signal Gold- Newfoundland and Labrador). The key deliverables of this project 
included: 
• Creation of an industry driven micro-learning delivery model. 
• Creation of a microlearning program that was be built around the delivery model 
directed at topics of behaviour-based safety and communication. 
• Delivery of a micro-learning program within Signal Gold and Agnico Eagle Mines. 
• Creation of a nationally recognized mining micro-credential.  
• Creation and implementation of a comprehensive ROI evaluation on the bottom-
line impacts of micro-learning. 
Research on micro-learning model deployment within the mining indus try is relevant to 
all industry stakeholders, and the research undertaken in this project, and its subsequent 
results, will serve as a starting point for the application of workplace based microlearning 
models. Effective deployment of this workplace model will not only help organizations 
and their people realize their intended objectives but also increase demand driven access 
to knowledge and skills and optimize application of these skills in the workplace. The 
speed and effectiveness with which skills development can be deployed in the future will 
be critical to the safe and productive operation of all organizations.  The research 
contained within this document will provide a blueprint for a workplace based 
microlearning model that will enhance the ability of industries, employers, and 
policymakers, to make the right choices and apply the right technological options to 
ensure safe, effective skills deployment.  
 
Evaluation Context  
 
Throughout the implementation of the microlearning process, evidence of its 
effectiveness and outcomes achieved were monitored throughout. A pre -survey was 
administered to all participants at the onset to achieve a base level on key metrics (early 
2021). Once microlearning was launched, participant engagement and success of 
learning was tracked using individual assessments that were completed as a part of the 

===== PAGE 79 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 78  
training (ongoing for 6- month period). Similar to the pre survey, this was given to both 
the control and experimental groups to identify changes in learning at this stage.  Finally, 
a post-survey was administered to the two groups after the 6 -month training to capture 
learnings (May 2022).   
 
In order to determine the impact of the program on the organi zation and to triangulate 
findings, interviews with coaches/mentors and organizational leaders were upon 
completion (May 2022). 
 
Additionally, evidence for the effectiveness of the training was captured through 
administrative data in order to track changes in key performance indicators (e.g., number 
of incidences, profit; completed throughout the process).  
 
Key Findings  
 
Relevance  
This Microlearning model was found to be relevant to the needs of the organization. The 
training model allowed for flexible p rogram delivery and did not require removing  
workers from the front-line to attend training. In addition, because it was delivered in the 
line of work application of behaviour change was highly optimized. The microlearning 
training program itself also provided a behaviour -based approach to health and safety, 
which helped increase employee engagement, knowledge and behaviour change on this 
important matter. 
 
This model, as evidenced by the quantitative data found later in this report, was highly 
effective in targeting skills gaps and behaviour change in the participants  While seen as 
highly relevant to the organization, employees requested that the microlearnig be 
targeted with more real life scenarios  specific to their position/team It was indicated that 
this  would help them  to better comprehend how the behavioural skills covered in 
microlearning can be applied in their day- to-day job and continue to increase behaviour 
change.  
  
Design and Delivery  
It was found that the design of microlearning model fit with the operational reality of the 
industry. Those participants with less experience in the mining industry were able to 
gather more takeaways and expressed greater attention and engagement with 
microlearning.  
 
The delivery model of microlearning allowed it to be integrated into the existing pre-shift 
meetings, which made it a routine and daily occurrence for employees and coaches. 
Additionally, the concept of short training videos was appealing for capturing the 
attention and interest of employees. Although, it was noted that the limited time in pre -
shift meetings, made it difficult to have an effective and engaging discussion following 
the training videos, which is something that coaches would like to have more of.   
 

===== PAGE 80 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 79  
Microlearning was designed to ensu re that mining employees receive the right training 
to do their job on a continuous basis, which the program successfully achieved. Although, 
optimizing the design and delivery to ensure it can be delivered, while meeting the needs 
of the organization is critical to enhancing effectiveness.  
 
Outcomes  
Employees completed ten modules in the microlearning program: active listening, 
mindfulness, workload management, decision making, vigilance, effective inquiry, 
closed loop communication, assertiveness, team building, and coaching.  
 
It was found that microlearning was successful in increasing behaviours across all ten 
competencies covered in the program at Signal Gold. Behavioural change has led to 
heightened awareness for safety -based practices and behaviour s, helping the 
organization to develop a prevention focused approach to workplace health and safety.  
 
In addition to behavioural change, microlearning provided the opportunity for increased 
engagement between employees and coaches, generating more convers ation on the 
importance of health and safety across the organization. Furthermore, employees 
gained the confidence and communication skills to speak up about health and safety 
matters to other employees and their supervisors.  
 
Due to organizational change  at Signal Gold, the outcomes of microlearning are not 
evident through the organization’s health and safety statistics at this time. Rather, the 
model was proven to be effective for producing behavioural and cultural change towards 
workplace safety. It is evident that the program has brought a proactive approach and 
brought health and safety top of mind across the organization. 
 
Recommendations  
As Training Works looks to implement microlearning at other organizations, it is 
important to leverage the feedback from this pilot phase to enhance the relevance and 
effectiveness of the program. Looking forward, it is recommended to consider the 
following: 
 
Getting buy-in at the management level to ensure successful delivery  
 
The pilot phase of microlearning  at Signal Gold organization reinforces the need for buy 
in and support of the program at all levels of the organization. Leaders and mentors were 
less receptive to the microlearning program because of the upcoming closure of Signal 
Gold. They weren’t able  to envision the long -term effects on the organization which 
prevented them from getting onboard.  
 
Implement microlearning specific training sessions 
 
Employees and Coaches found the microlearning model engaging during their toolbox 
talks however felt that there wasn't enough time to fully discuss the topics. They also felt 

===== PAGE 81 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 80  
introducing new topics via video daily was too frequent. While consistent health and 
safety trainings are important, there is opportunity to make for a better experience for 
employees a nd coaches. It is recommended to alter the frequency of video based 
trainings and supplement them with additional forms of microlearning (job aids, 
checklists, guided discussions etc.). In addition an increase in the amount of time allotted 
for microlearning trainings to allow for discussion is recommended. 
 
Target those new/less experienced to the workforce/industry 
 
Microlearning is best suited and leveraged as daily reminders to commute knowledge 
into behaviour as opposed to teaching brand new skills. En suring that employees 
understand the intent and outcomes of the microlearning model will help with learner 
engagement moving forwards. The behaviour -based approach of microlearning was 
found to be effective.  Those experienced in the industry have received behavioura-
based skills trainings in the past and considered the content of microlearning to be 
repetitive.  While microlearning provided them with limited new learnings, it did serve as 
a reminder to the importance of behavioura -based skills in creating a safe workplace. 
Greater attention should be paid to onboarding employees to the purpose of 
microlearning to ensure their expectations align with the model delivery.  
 
Find new ways to engage more experienced workers  
 
It is important to investigate ways to engage more experienced workers, as a behaviour-
based training remains highly important and relevant to the industry. With many 
incidents and injuries occurring as a result of an experienced worker becoming 
complacent, alternative delivery models may pi que their interest and heighten 
engagement with this audience.  
 
Use human actors/actresses to elevate professionalism  
 
While it didn’t take away from the learnings of microlearning, the use of  animation 
impeded on the appeal and relevance. Mentors and coaches noted that some employees 
were less attentive to the videos because of the type of animation utilized. 
Consequently, it is recommended to utilize human actors/actresses in the microlearning 
training videos to elevate professionalism and broaden the appeal for industrial works of 
all ages and skill levels.   
 
Include industry examples to enhance relevance    
 
As not all microlearning training videos are relevant to all positions, and some employees 
lacked the ability to make the connection between the  competencies covered in the 
training and their day -to-day job in mining. To further the impact of microlearning, it is 
recommended to include more job-specific examples in the training videos and follow-up 
discussions. This would help to demonstrate how the behaviours covered in 
microlearning can be applied in the workplace as safety prevention tactics. 

===== PAGE 82 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 81  
 
While the above recommendations would further the effectiveness of microlearning, it 
was acknowledged to be impactful in its pilot phase with the organization and is seen as 
a scalable program within and beyond the mining industry.  
 
Conclusion  
 
Overall, the pilot phase of microlearning completed at Signal Gold was found to be 
successful in achieving the outputs and immediate outcomes outlined in the Theory of 
Change. By taking the recommendations provided into consideration, there is 
opportunity to optimize and enhance the effectiveness of microlearning to scale it across 
other organizations.  
 
 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 83 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 82  
1.0  PROJECT CONTEXT 
 
1.1 Project Overview  
 
Signal Gold, in partnership with Training Works, Agnico Eagle, and the Mining Industry 
Human Resource Council conducte d a two -year microlearning project in the mining 
industry. Training Works is an EdTech company with vast experience working in skills 
development. Working with clients to create training that is relevant and applicable on 
the job, Training Works understands that each organization and its employees require a 
unique approach to skills development. This training put learning in the hands of almost 
200 participants who work at Signal Gold and Agnico Eagle Mining. The program was a 
total of two years which inclu ded the development and design of a microlearning and 
coaching program with 6 months of daily microlearning for employees. Employees 
completed up to 7 minutes of daily microlearning that could be done anywhere, anytime 
on their computers, mobile devices, and smart televisions. Coupled with onsite coaching 
and mentoring, this comprehensive blended learning program fits easily into an 
operator's daily schedule.  Agnico Eagle employees engaged in training daily during their 
toolbox talks which lasted from 12- 35 minutes. On average, employees engaged in 
microlearning for 13.5 minutes a day across 90 working days, equating to  16.4 hours of 
training per participant and over 1000 hours of training for the organization. A total of 69 
MiHR Communication Micro creden tials were awarded to the participants at Agnico 
Eagle. 
 
The mining industry is experiencing shifts in technology, constraints on time and budget 
for offsite training and employees working in the process plants are deskless. Training 
Works mining clients s eek solutions for onsite training that is relevant and timely. Using 
their experience and previous collaboration, Training Works proposed daily 
microlearning as a delivery model for this training.  Employees in this industry had 
demonstrated knowledge gains by using videos, checklists, infographics.  They prefer to 
stay on the job and learn rather than take the time away from their jobs for in- class 
training that often lasts for days. Employees felt that by incorporating safety training into 
their daily workday it would help them retain knowledge and be able to apply it. The 
Future Skills Centre (FSC) is a pan -Canadian organization passionate about creating a 
future in which everyone has life -long access to high -quality career advice and learning 
opportunities. The FSC’s focus is on strengthening Canada’s skills development 
ecosystem so that Canadians can look to a future of meaningful and relevant lifelong 
learning opportunities. FSC is funded by the Government of Canada Future Skills 
Program3. In 2019 FSC sought proposals for innovative projects that test and evaluate 
new or emerging approaches, or that expand, scale and/or replicate promising 
approaches, to progress the following three objectives: 
 
 
3https://fsc-ccf.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/Strategic-Plan-2020.pdf 

===== PAGE 84 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 83  
4. Support Canadian workers facing labour market disruption to transition to new 
jobs or industries; 
5. Engage employers in more effectively developing and delivering demand -driven 
solutions to skills gap challenges; and, 
6. Optimize skills development systems by building the capacity of service providers 
to better collaborate with each other and other organizations that could expand 
or improve their services.   
 
Signal Gold submitted the Microlearning in the Mining Industry project under objective 
two to engage employers in more effectively developing and del ivering demand-driven 
solutions to skills gap challenges. FSC has invested $930,000 in this innovative project 
that tests the outcomes of bite-size learning based on each employee’s need in their role 
at the time and focusing on behaviour-based safety and communications. All the training 
in this program had a diversity lens applied to ensure appropriateness for the target 
audiences, which include remote, rural, and Northern communities. The additional on -
the-job support from coaches and mentors was designed to improve behaviour -based 
awareness through the hybrid of digital learning and a mentor/mentee on- the-job 
feedback loop. 
 
The purpose of this microlearning project was to ensure that mining employees receive 
the right training to do their job on a continuous basis. These employees are limited in the 
amount of time they can spend away to receive training, the development of this 
microlearning program and delivery model was to combat this constraint while ensuring 
knowledge transfer and behaviour change.  T he goal of this project was to test the 
effectiveness of a microlearning model on increasing the skills of employees and 
changing behaviours on the job. The project team also hypothesized that this increase in 
knowledge and behaviour change would impact the organization by reducing incidents 
and accidents and increasing productivity. These metrics also affect the overall bottom 
line growth of the organization and overall ROI. 
 
1.2 What is the microlearning model? 
 
The definition of microlearning varies throughout the training industry, for this project 
the definition is short learning moments less than 6 minutes in the form of video, 
podcasts, infographics, job aids and guided discussions relevant to the work 
environment and tasks. M icrolearning is meant to refresh your knowledge and help a 
worker apply this knowledge in the flow of work. By using familiar scenarios and work 
environments microlearning demonstrates how specific skills can be used on the job. 
 
The microlearning model (s ee below) illustrates the delivery model that was piloted at 
Signal Gold. This pilot phase was used to develop greater understanding for whether the 
microlearning model is scalable within and beyond the mining industry.  
 

===== PAGE 85 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 84  
 
 
The microlearning model began w ith engaging employees at both Signal Gold  and 
Agnico Eagle to understand the training needs from a management perspective as well 
as the frontline worker. The project team interviewed key stakeholders within the 
management and health and safety teams to gain insight into the organization, the 
current training model, and requirements. The project execution team, Training Works 
engaged with frontline workers through interviews focus groups and one on one 
discussions to learn about the skills required to do their jobs safely and their learning 
preferences as well as the operational reality and challenges to learning on the job. Using 
this engagement, a review incidents and accidents within the organizations and 
leveraging industry research the Training Works team in consultation with Signal Gold 
and Agnico Eagle created a behaviour -based safety competency model including 
communication. 
 


===== PAGE 86 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 85  
From the competency model a skills gap assessment was created to assess the 
employees’ understanding of each of the 10 competencies. Training Works utilized their 
flagship technology Skilltinuous for employee skills assessments and microlearning 
delivery. Employees answered scenario-based questions as well as self-assessments for 
each competency.  
 
The microlearning content was  developed from the engagement at both organizations, 
through analysis of the incidents and accidents and the skills gap assessment. During 
project execution, the training was adapted to also include guided discussions and 
activities post-microlearning to enhance knowledge transfer. 
 
Microlearning was delivered during the toolbox talks and followed by guided 
discussions. During these talks the Coach would discuss the topic of the microlearning, 
deliver it in the form of a video, podcast, poster, infographic, job aid or activity to the team 
and then follow up with provided questions to increase engagement and interaction of 
the more experienced team members with the less experienced. By creating this space 
to talk safety, the teams had the opportunity to use their communication skills, develop 
their safety skills further, and the potential to increase their safety culture. 
 
The Coaching program was developed to help deliver the microlearning program and 
help participants with transferring knowledge into behavi our on the job. Each coach 
attended training sessions with the Training Works project team and given a 
presentation to understand the project and the competency model they would be using. 
Further to that coaches received a coaching handbook with each competency explained 
with behaviours to look for on the job. Early in the microlearning delivery, coaches 
expressed they needed guidance to deliver the microlearning. The program was adapted 
to include a Coaching overview, for every microlearning delivered the coach received 


===== PAGE 87 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 86  
directions on how to present the video, activity, or formats, provided notes on what to 
focus on in the training and discussion questions for a team conversation. 
 
1.3 Why was the model selected? 
 
In alignment with funders, Future Skills Centers  “focus on strengthening Canada’s skills 
development ecosystem so that Canadians can look to a future of meaningful and 
relevant lifelong learning opportunities 4” microlearning was developed to provide 
deskless workers with accessible and continuous training opportunities to learn the skills 
required to stay safe on the job.  
 
Workplace learning is experiencing a drastic shift to support modern requirements. Time 
and money constraints within an organization limit the amount of time an employee can 
leave the job to attend training. In addition, today’s modern learner must be adaptable 
and able to react quickly to disruptions within the workplace.  
 
According to Deloitte, today’s learner has only 1% of their typical work week to focus on 
learning and developm ent. Considering time and money constraints within 
organizations, it is key that learning be quick, contextualized, and continuous to be 
effective. Additionally, today’s learners find themselves untethered to a single 
computer-based location, especially in  a mining environment, making access on mobile 
devices increasingly important for learner uptake. The same modern learners prefer to 
be collaborative and learn from and with their peers instead of alone. Including a coaching 
and mentoring program alongside the microlearning program will address this need. 
 
Nearly half of Canadian jobs are at high risk of being affected by automation over the 
coming ten to twenty years. Technological disruption is predicted to most impact 
workers in disadvantaged groups. Workers in low -skill jobs are also most likely to be 
affected by automation. Rural and remote communities are at a high risk of being 
affected by job displacement due to training availability and proximity to city centers. It 
is important to ensure creation and retention of a skilled labour market in order to sustain 
the community and region. Thus, increasing the need for a scalable development 
program to avoid worker displacement and provide deskless workers with continuing 
education.  
 
Additionally, development programs must be continuous in nature to support ongoing 
skills development within an organization. It is no longer enough to offer single training 
events within the workplace and to assume knowledge transfer will occur. Most of the 
knowledge learned in single training events is forgotten shortly therea fter. To best 
increase skills transfer to the job, learning and development must occur on a continuous 
basis and be agile enough to apply changes when in demand skills shift. 
 
 
 
4 https://fsc-ccf.ca/who-we-are/#mission 

===== PAGE 88 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 87  
1.4 Microlearning at Signal Gold   
 
Signal Gold, formerly Anaconda Mining, is the owner and operator of the Point Rousse 
Project in Newfoundland and Labrador. The Company has been producing gold 
continuously from the project since September 1st, 2010. The Signal Gold operation at 
the Point Rousse Site on the Baie Verte Peninsula NL emplo yed 88 people in the 
processing plant as well as the geological team working in the mine area. The mine has 
been in operation since 2010 and has produced more than 118,028 ounces of gold. In 
2022, the company announced it was closing the mine and operations have since ended. 
Leadership at Signal Gold were seeking new ways to engage with their employees for 
skills development. The Microlearning in the Mining Industry project began at Signal 
Gold in 2020, through meetings and stakeholder interviews Training W orks began 
developing this project alongside of Signal Gold employees. The development continued 
throughout 2021 through interviews, surveys, focus groups and one on one discussions 
to identify the skills required to stay safe on the job and to gain insight into how 
employees preferred to learn. COVID 19 did prevent the project team to travel to site, 
but the team pivoted to online meetings and telephone conversations and interviews. At 
times operations at Signal Gold were limited to skeleton crews which also impacted 
delivery of learning and employee morale. 
 
2.0 EVALUATION CONTEXT  
 
The evaluation of the microlearning project expanded over the two- year period lasting 
from June 2020-August 2022. With the evaluation planning and baseline data collection 
occurring in 2020- 2021, program monitoring and evaluation data collection in 2021-
2022, and evaluation reporting in June 2023 to Future Skills.  
 
Preliminary information was gathered and documented at the beginning of the project 
through interviews, questionna ires, and document review. This initial research took 
approximately six months and concluded by December 2020. This information was used 
to develop the evaluation framework created by a credentialed evaluator is continuous 
and will ensure the success of the project.  
 
Upon the development of the digital competency tool and the microlearning program 
beginning, a more in-depth review of internal safety training, procedures, competencies 
and gaps took place.   
 
Throughout the implementation of the microlearning process, evidence of its 
effectiveness and outcomes achieved were monitored throughout. A pre -survey was 
administered to all participants at the onset to achieve a base level on key metrics (early 
2021). Once microlearning was launched, participant engag ement and success of 
learning was tracked using individual assessments that were completed as a part of the 
training (ongoing for 6- month period). Similar to the pre survey, this was given to both 
the control and experimental groups to identify changes in learning at this stage.  Finally, 

===== PAGE 89 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 88  
a post-survey was administered to the two groups after the 6 -month training to capture 
learnings (August 2022).   
 
In order to determine the impact of the program on the organization and to triangulate 
findings, interviews with coaches/mentors and organizational leaders were conducted 
at upon completion (May 2022). 
 
Additionally, evidence for the effectiveness of the training was captured through 
administrative data in order to track changes in key performance indicators (e.g., number 
of incidences, profit; completed throughout the process).  
 
The evaluation covers all aspects noted by the Future Skills Center: 
• Evidence 
o The evidence journey began with a rigorous assessment of an intervention’s 
logic model and theory of change. As interventions demonstrate preliminary 
evidence of success, they are ready for more rigorous evaluation with the 
ultimate aim of preparing for im pact evaluation and cost- benefit analysis to 
generate the quality of evidence necessary to inform scaling decisions. 
• Implementation 
o As interventions mature, we have set quality benchmarks and use techniques, 
such as rapid-cycle evaluation, to support projects through an ongoing cycle of 
continuous learning and program improvement. 
• Relevance 
o As evaluation findings emerge, we update our assessment of each 
intervention’s relevance to our mandate and its potential to have an impact at 
a pan-Canadian scale. This  assessment process is conducted in collaboration 
with provinces and territories and other key stakeholders in Canada’s skills 
development ecosystems. The results of this assessment are critical input to 
decision-making for reinvestment. 
 
 
2.1 Theory of Change  
 
A TOC is a map indicating the logically related aspects of an initiative. It shows, at a broad 
conceptual level, the links among an initiative’s inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes.   
 
The definitions for each component of the TOC include: 
• Inputs: Financial and human resources used to deliver activities, produce outputs 
and accomplish outcomes.  
• Activities: The “how” – actions, initiatives, or specific programs implemented to 
produce outputs.  
• Outputs: The “what” – direct products or services produced from the activities. 
Outputs are usually tangible or quantified.  

===== PAGE 90 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 89  
• Outcomes: The “why” – changes that occur as a result of the outputs of the 
program, project or initiative. Outcomes can be short -term (immediate) or 
medium-term (intermediate).  
• Impacts: The bigger picture or long -term outcomes. Impacts are usually 
influenced by other confounding factors and cannot be solely contributable to the 
program, project or initiative.  
 
Figure 1 illustrates the progression of the project from development to im plementation 
and evaluation. The development of the microlearning program and delivery model 
combines prescriptive and contextualized continuous training and an on the job 
mentoring program to ensure transfer of knowledge and behavior change. The intended 
outcome is to increase communication and safety incident reporting, to decrease safety 
incidents by improving the overall safety culture of the organization and thus in -turn 
improve the organizations efficiency and productivity. 
 
  

===== PAGE 91 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 90  
Figure 1: TOC of the Microlearning in the Mining Industry Project 
 
 
 
2.2 Evaluation Framework 
 
An evaluation framework is an important preparatory tool in the evaluation process 
because it allows for advanced consideration of the evaluation approach, to identify data 


===== PAGE 92 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 91  
requirements for project stakeholders, and to determine how these requirements will be 
met. 
 
Below is an evaluation and performance measurement framework for the evaluation of 
the Microlearning Mining Industry project and includes: 
• Core evaluation issues (relevance, design and delivery, outcomes); 
• Evaluation questions covering the core evaluation issues; and 
• Methods for data collection. 
 
The evaluation questions and the corresponding indicators listed below are based on the 
document reviewed, an in- person workshop and conversations held with program staff 
to reflect the present iteration of the programs.  
 
Note: Asterisk * indicates Future Skills Common Outcomes Framework Indicators  
 
Table 1: Evaluation Framework  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
Participant Information 
(baseline/post survey) 
     
*Gender    X  
*Age    X  
*Location    X  
*Marital Status     X  
*Children    X  
*Education    X  
*Indigenous Identity    X  
*Francophone    X  
*Newcomer Status     X  
*Racialized status    X  
*Disability     X  
*Industry and Occupation  X     
*Employment Status  X     
*Source of income  X     
Relevance      
Alignment between the project 
and Future Skills  X    X 
Alignment between the project 
and the mining industry  X    X 
Perception of the effectiveness 
and flexibility of the project’s 
design to be responsive to evolving 
needs and objectives  
X    X 

===== PAGE 93 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 92  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
Ability/sufficiency to adjust the 
program to larger sector needs X    X 
Perception of the relevance of the 
microlearning topics to 
participants and the sectors 
X   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X 
X 
Design and Delivery       
Number of courses/topics created X    X 
Number of courses/topics 
completed  X    
Number of participants engaged  X    
Number of mentors actively 
involved in the project  X    
Perceptions on the effectiveness of 
the training    X X 
Perceptions on the mode of 
delivery (6 months/ 
microlearning/app usage & 
functionality) 
   X X 
% of learning assessments 
completed   X X  
Outcomes       
% of participants who show an 
increase in knowledge in safety -
based practices  
  X X  
% of participants who show 
increased communication skills   X X  
% of participants who show an 
increase in adoption of safety -
based behaviours on the worksite   
  X X  
% of mentors who report an 
increase in participant knowledge 
in safety-based practices 
   X X 
% of mentors who report an 
increase in participant 
communication 
   X X 

===== PAGE 94 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 93  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
Perceived change in safety 
behaviours in the workplace    X X 
*% of participants with increased 
employment opportunities 
(including change in employment) 
   X  
*% of participants with increased 
employment earnings (sources)    X  
*% of participants who were 
overall satisfied with the program    X  
*% of participants with increased 
job satisfaction     X  
*% of participants with increased 
opportunity to enroll in further 
training or education programs (if 
yes, types or program enrolled) 
   X  
Perception of ability for career 
advancement    X  
# of safety courses completed (in 
addition to microlearning)       
Turn over rates (employee 
engagement)  X    
#/% of internal staff promotions      
Level of safety compliance  X    
Level of environmental 
compliance  X    
# of incidence reports by  
• Area (e.g., processing, 
mining, maintenance) 
• Incident type (e.g., lost time, 
near miss, property 
damage)  
• Cause (e.g., failure to be 
attentive, failure to be 
secure, improper lifting) 
 X    
# of injury reports by  
• Area (e.g., processing, 
mining, maintenance) 
• Incident type (e.g., lost time, 
near miss, property 
damage)  
 X    

===== PAGE 95 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 94  
Indicator 
Methodologies 
Doc 
Review 
Admin 
Data 
Learning 
Assess. 
Participan
t Surveys 
KI 
Interviews 
• Cause (e.g., failure to be 
attentive, failure to be 
secure, improper lifting) 
Perception of emergency 
preparedness     X X 
Hours of HR training required   X    
Hours of safety training required  X    
Enablers to programs success    X X 
Barriers to programs success    X X 
Perception of unintended 
outcomes    X X 
Economic performance       
Cost saving around staffing time 
vs. in-classroom training     X    
Operating statistics 
• Number of operating days  
• Product mined  
• Tonnes per operating day  
• Operating costs  
 X    
Costs/efforts towards safety  
• OHS directives issues  
• Inspections  
• Safety meetings  
• Violations  
• Site orientations   
 X    
Cost of program per participant vs. 
economic performance change 
(bottom line growth) 
 X    
 
Based on the framework, a mixed/multi -method approach was implemented which 
included a document review, administrative data analysis, key informant interviews, 
surveys, and learning assessments. 
 
Document Review 
Dig conducted a document review to gain an understanding of the microlearning project 
including its relevance, intended outcomes, i mplementation and outcomes achieved to 
date. Below is a list of documents that were reviewed:  
 Number of injury reports 
 Number of incidence reports  
 HR/Safety trainings  
 Operating statistics 
 Costs/efforts towards safety  

===== PAGE 96 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 95  
Administrative Data  
Training Works provided Dig with administrative data from the organizations to analyze 
the scope of training completed and the achievement of outcomes. This included data on: 
 Training hours 
 Safety courses completed 
 Employee turnover  
 Level of safety compliance 
 Level of environmental compliance 
 
Key Informant Interviews 
Key informant interviews were conducted to gather a deeper understanding and to 
explore any questions that emerged as a result of the findings from other evaluation 
methods. In total nine key informant interviews were conducted with key stakeholders 
including: 
 Safety Training Coordinator (Leader) 
 Site GM (Leader) 
 Health & Safety Manager (Leader) 
 Maintenance Supervisor (Mentor) 
 Operations Supervisor (Mentor) 
 
The detailed interview guides can be found in Appendix A.  
 
Participant Surveys 
Surveys were completed pre, and post program to gauge participants experience and 
learnings. Full survey results can be found in Appendix C.  
 
Survey Number of Completes 
Pre 47 
Post 12 
 
Skills Assessments  
Analyzing industry information, incidents, and accident reports, and learning firsthand 
information from frontline workers the competency model for this project was 
delivered. From here a digital competency tool was utilized to identify the skills gap to be 
addressed in the microlearning program. Key behaviors within each of the 4 
communication competencies were aligned with behaviours required in MiHR’s 
National Occupational Standards for Minerals Processing Operator.  Both scenario-
based questions and self-assessment questions were curated with consultation from the 
health and safety team. Training Works Skilltinuous platform was populated with the 
competency model and the assessment questions.  Participants were introduced to the 
Skilltinuous technology and given a guided tour through the process as well as a 
technology guide to consult if they struggled with the process. The digital competency 
tool was used to understand the skill level of the workforce before the microlearning and 
identify the skills gap in the 10 competencies. Once the microlearning was complete 
Skilltinuous was used to identify the knowledge gained in each of the 10 competencies.  

===== PAGE 97 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 96  
 
Survey Number of Completes 
Initial Skills Assessment 71 
Final Skills Assessment  37 
Participants Completed Initial & Final 30 
 
 
3.0 LIMITATIONS  
 
Annual data included in the report covers the period of December -May annually. This 
period is inclusive of the time in which microlearning took place at Signal Gold  
 
Furthermore, the final evaluation is being completed immediately following the 
conclusion of the microlearning project. This evaluation was conducted immediately 
after the completion of the program and is difficult to assess the long-term impact at this 
point however there has been a noted change in behaviour, knowledge and culture as 
seen throughout this document.  
 
4.0 FINDINGS 
 
This section presents the findings and supporting evidence from the final evaluation of 
the microlearning program.   
 
4.1 Relevance  
 
Finding: Microlearning model was found to be relevant to the needs of the 
organization and the mining industry. The training program provided a behaviour -
based approach to health and safety, which helped increase employee engagement on 
this important matter. 
 
While seen as highly relevant to the organization, employees anticipat ed 
microlearning to pertain more to their organization or industry. As the project 
progressed, training content and follow up discussions were directed towards 
employees specific position/team, to help them better comprehend how the 
behavioural skills covered in microlearning can be applied in their day-to-day job.  
 
4.1.1 Relevance to the Mining Industry   
 
Workplace health and safety is of high importance, and at the Signal Gold organization 
has always been held to a high standard. Although, finding the time to gather and train 
employees without impeding operational efficiency can be challenging in the mining 
industry. The Microlearning model of delivery was introduced at Signal Gold to provide 

===== PAGE 98 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 97  
employees with ongoing behaviour- based health and safety trai ning in a time effective 
manner, while bringing a proactive approach to workplace health and safety. 
 
The Microlearning model also helped to bring new delivery methods to the organization 
and the mining industry and provide better structure to health and s afety trainings. This 
helped to increase engagement and discussion between employees and coaches.   
 
Overall, microlearning delivery model was found to be relevant to the needs of the 
organization and the mining industry. Providing a different approach to health and safety 
training for employees is something that mentors and leaders hope to see expand within 
the organization and the industry.  
 
4.1.2 Relevance to Employees  
 
Employees recognized the importance of health and safety in the workplace setting, and 
especially the mining industry. Therefore, participating in daily training was seen as 
valuable to the 69 Signal Gold employees that received the microlearning credential from 
MiHR. Furthermore, it was found that microlearning was effective in getting employees 
thinking more about their behaviors and actions while on the job.   
 
Overall, microlearning helped bring awareness to the importance of behavioural- based 
safety skills in the workplace. The inclusion of mining industry examples and applications 
in the program would help some employees better understand how these skills can be 
applied in their position at Signal Gold.  
 
4.2 Design & Delivery 
  
Finding: It was found that the design of microlearning model was effective in providing 
safety refreshers to employees. The behaviour -based approach of microlearning 
delivery model was seen as a reiteration and reminder of what experienced employees 
had learned over the course of their career.  For new employees, it provided them with 
new learnings and consistent reminders of safety practices.  
 
The delivery model of microlearning allowed it to be integrated into the existing pre -
shift meetings, which made it a rout ine and daily occurrence for employees and 
coaches. Additionally, the concept of short training videos was appealing for capturing 
the attention and interest of employees. Although, it was noted that the limited time in 
pre-shift meetings, made it difficul t to have an effective and engaging discussion 
following the training videos, which is something that coaches would like to have more 
of.   
 
The Microlearning delivery model was designed to ensure that mining employees 
receive the right training to do thei r job on a continuous basis, which the program 
successfully achieved. Although, optimizing the design and delivery to ensure it can be 

===== PAGE 99 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 98  
delivered, while meeting the needs of the organization is critical to enhancing 
effectiveness.  
 
4.2.1 Microlearning Design  
Microlearning was designed as a behaviour- based training program using the 
competency model outlined in Table 2. The competency model was created through 
analysis of incidents and accidents, to understand what behaviours or lack thereof were 
contributing to these incidents and accidents. From there key informant interviews were 
held with employees in the organization to understand the skills needed to perform their 
jobs safely and any skills gaps they identified themselves. From there it was understood  
that Situational Awareness and Communication were the top skills identified by the 
workers and industry research as well. To verify this, several focus groups with the 
organization were conducted to discuss in detail both communication and situational 
awareness.  
 
The competency model had ten competencies overall, four concentrating on 
communication and six to develop the skills needed to increase situational awareness. 
The communication competencies were aligned with MiHR National Occupational 
Standards to ensure participants could receive a micro credential from MiHR in 
Communication for the Minerals Processing Operator NOS. The other six competencies 
were presented to and reviewed by a Human Factors Expert and then reviewed and 
approved by the organizations Health and Safety Manager/Superintendent.  
 
Table 2: Microlearning Competencies Model  
Competency Description 
Mindfulness Mindfulness is being present in the moment. You think about 
the outcomes of your actions before you finish the task. You 
think about the impact of your words before you say them. 
Vigilance Vigilance means to keep your focus and stay alert while doing 
tasks at work. To be safe at work you must always keep an eye 
on the people, the machines, and your work site. 
Active Listening You listen to understand the speaker’s message. 
Effective Inquiry You ask questions with purpose. 
Closed Loop 
Communication 
You use a 3 -step process when you speak. You state the 
message, you wait for the listener to tell you their version of the 
message and you confirm when they are correct. 
Assertiveness You make sure your message is heard and addressed. 
Strategic Decision 
Making 
You use a 5-step process to decide.  
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
3.  Consider your options 
4. Decide on a path forward 
5.  Evaluate your decision 

===== PAGE 100 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 99  
Team Building You are a part of a team working towards a goal. To reach the 
goal your team works well together and continue to improve 
and learn. 
Workload 
Management 
You understand how to manage your tasks with the team and 
goal in mind. If you are a manager or supervisor, you are able to 
assign tasks to individuals based on their role in the company 
and skill level. 
Coaching Coaching is already a big part of day -to-day tasks at your 
company. By coaching others, you are sharing your know -how 
and skills. You help members of your team to become safe in 
the workplace. 
 
Once the competency model was approved, a skills assessment was completed by the 
employees to assess their levels for each competency, also completed upon the 
completion of microlearning. Behavioural change was also assessed in the pre, and post 
surveys employed completed. These results will be detailed in the following section.  
 
Overall, the behaviour- based model of microlearning was found to be effective for 
newer/less experienced employees in the industry or workplace setting. It brought 
attention to skillsets that will help them to remain safe while performing their job and 
ensuring others are acting in a safe manner.  
 
For long-standing employees in the mining industry, microlearning served as a valuable 
reminder of the impact their behaviours have on workplace health and safety. 
Microlearning provided a reminder of the skills employees should be applying on a daily 
basis to stay safe on the job.   
 
4.2.2 Microlearning Delivery  
With employees being constrained to a limited amount of training time in their workday, 
the microlearning delivery model was designed to be a quick and effective training tool 
to ensure that employees receive consistent training. To combat time limitations, mining 
employees completed approximately four minutes of training per day, followed by a 
collaborative discussion with other employees and coaches.  The purpose of the 
discussion was to generate conversation to enhance learning on the safety topic 
covered, with the hope that employees would continue the conversation while on the job 
site. 
 
“It’s efficient because it reduces time, the message is clear, and everybody is getting the 
same message.” 
- Leader 
 
The design of the microlearning program was found to be effective, with coaches being 
able to incorporate the training videos and discussion into daily toolbox talks (pre -shift 
meeting). It can be problematic for the organization to arrange company-wide trainings, 
therefore being able to integrate into a pre-existing meeting helped to make it a routine.  

===== PAGE 101 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 100  
 
It was found that 84% of employees were satisfied with the microlearning delivery model 
(Figure 2), given that it could be incorporated into the preexisting toolbox talks – a time 
when all employees can gather pre-shift. 
 
Figure 2: For this program you will complete about 5 minutes of training per day while on 
shift and receive feedback and support from coaches. How would you rate your 
satisfaction with this training model? (N=12)  
 
 
 
 
5.0 OUTCOMES  
 
Finding: Employees completed ten modules in the microlearning program: active 
listening, mindfulness, workload management, decision making, vigilance, effective 
inquiry, closed loop communication, assertiveness, team building, and coaching.  
 
It was found that micr olearning was successful in increasing behaviours across all ten 
competencies covered in the program at Signal Gold. Behavioural change has led to 
heightened awareness for safety -based practices and behaviours, helping the 
organization to develop a prevent ion focused approach to workplace health and 
safety.  
 
In addition to behavioural change, microlearning provided the opportunity for 
increased engagement between employees and coaches, generating more 
conversation on the importance of health and safety acr oss the organization. 
Furthermore, employees gained the confidence and communication skills to speak up 
about health and safety matters to other employees and their supervisors.  
 
Due to organizational change at Signal Gold, the outcomes of microlearning a re not 
evident through the organization’s health and safety statistics at this time. Rather, the 
model was proven to be effective for producing behavioural and cultural change 
towards workplace safety. It is evident that the program has brought a proactive  
approach and brought health and safety top of mind across the organization.  
 
 
16% 42% 42%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Delivery Model
Very Dissatisfied Somewhat Dissatisfied Neutral Somewhat Satisfied Very Satisfied

===== PAGE 102 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 101  
5.1 Outputs  
 
5.1.1 Employees have access to training 
Providing accessible training for employees is challenging in the mining industry and 
more and more employees are wanting  to engage with training in the flow of work. 
Microlearning was welcomed in the Signal Gold organization, and the delivery model 
was successful in meeting their needs. 
 
While safety has always been top-of-mind for the organization, coaches recognized that 
microlearning is an effective tool to increase awareness and discussion of workplace 
health and safety for Signal Gold employees. 
 
5.1.2 Training modules completed  
Over the course of the microlearning program, employees completed ten modules, 
which algin with the competencies outlined in Table 2 and include the following:  
 
• Active Listening  
• Mindfulness  
• Workload Management  
• Decision Making 
• Vigilance  
• Effective Inquiry  
• Closed Loop Communication 
• Assertiveness 
• Team Building 
• Coaching 
 
With most workplace accidents being behaviour- related, the idea of a behaviour -based 
health and safety program was appealing to Signal Gold. Although, upon completing the 
program coaches expressed the need for the modules to be better tied to the 
organization and the mining industry.   
 
Overall, the behaviour- based approach of microlearning was found to be effective and 
should be carried forward, but there is an opportunity to better relate the modules with 
the organization and industry.  
 
5.1.3 Engagement with coaches and mentors 
The microlearning delivery model helped to increase engagement between employees 
and coaches and mentors. Most notably, the training provided coaches with content to 
present to employees, which aided in generating discussion. This also he lped to ensure 
consistent knowledge sharing across all departments and shifts.  
 

===== PAGE 103 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 102  
From the coach’s experience of being a supervisor, it can be difficult to formulate a 
collaborative discussion with the team. The training played a valuable role as a “thought 
starter” to get the conversation flowing between employees and coaches.  
 
Most notably, the microlearning delivery model helped employees to overcome barriers 
of identifying and calling out health and safety risks to their colleagues and supervisors. 
Therefore, microlearning has also helped to increase engagement between employees.  
 
5.1.4 Awareness of safety-based practices  
The Microlearning delivery model was successful in making safety practices top-of-mind 
for employees. Completing ongoing safety trainings helped employees to become more 
aware how their behaviours contribute to a safe workplace. Previous organization safety 
training had limited focus on behavioural skills, therefore this model served as a valuable 
learning opportunity and reminder to both new and experienced employees.  
 
Furthermore, Table 3 outlines the results of the employee skills assessment completed 
by employees pre and post microlearning. The microlearning delivery model was 
successful in increasing behavioural skills across the ten competencies covered in the 
program. The competencies which incurred significant change in the Signal Gold 
organization include mindfulness, workload management, and closed loop 
communication. 
 
Table 3: Skills Assessment Results  
Competency  Pre (N=31) 
Post 
(N=31) Change 
Active Listening  86.66 84.01 -2.65 
Mindfulness  79.29 80.35 1.06 
Workload Management 79.26 82.12 2.86 
Decision Making 83.26 82.60 -0.66 
Vigilance 85.17 83.68 -1.49 
Effective Inquiry  86.33 86.84 0.51 
Closed Loop Communication  87.20 89.26 2.06 
Assertiveness 86.06 87.01 0.95 
Team Building 86.70 86.02 -0.68 
Coaching 83.00 83.77 0.77 
Total    ~1% 
 
Additionally, the behavioral assessment that employees completed as a part of the pre 
and post survey, microlearning was effective in increasing skills across all ten 
competencies.  
 
 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 104 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 103  
Figure 3: Below is a list of behavioural topics that have been covered during the program. 
Please read each one carefully and then rate where you think your current behaviours are 
on a scale from 1- 5. (1 -  you never do this behaviour to 5 -  you always take part in this 
behaviour) 
0% 2%
21%
49%
28%
0% 0% 8% 17%
75%
0%
50%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Mindfulness
Pre Post
0% 0% 13%
45% 43%
0% 0% 8%
58%
33%
0%
50%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Vigilance 
Pre Post
0% 0%
17%
53%
30%
0% 0% 0%
33%
67%
0%
50%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Active Listening 
Pre Post
0% 2%
17%
53%
30%
0% 0% 0%
50%
67%
0%
50%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Effective Inquiry 
Pre Post

===== PAGE 105 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 104  
 
0%
9%
37% 43%
11%
0% 0%
33% 33% 34%
0%
20%
40%
60%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Closed Loop Communication 
Pre Post
0%
9%
34%
47%
19%
0% 0% 0%
50% 50%
0%
20%
40%
60%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Assertiveness
Pre Post
2% 2% 11%
40% 45%
0% 0% 3%
33%
67%
0%
50%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Team Building
Pre Post
0% 4%
22%
50%
24%
0% 0%
17%
50%
33%
0%
20%
40%
60%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Strategic Decision Making
Pre Post

===== PAGE 106 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 105  
 
 
5.1.5 Awareness of communication skills 
Communication was encompassed across four of the ten competencies covered in the 
microlearning program. For the organization, this was a behavioural skill seen as highly 
valuable. As seen in Table 3 above, microlearning was effective in increasing closed loop 
communication skills specifically, but communication was a skill that integrated across 
multiple modules of the microlearning program (e.g., team building, coaching, active 
listening).  
 
5.2 Immediate Outcomes  
 
5.2.1 Adoption of safety behaviours  
As discussed in section 5.4 and 5.5, microlearning was successful in producing 
behavioural change amongst employees. The trainings were effective in putting safety 
behaviours at the forefront for employees in their day -to-day job which has led to more 
thought and discussion around safety behaviours in the organization.  It is also important 
to recognize a target for the health and safety team is to increase the safety behaviours 
of their workforce. The goal is to move employees up the scale from never or sometimes 
using a safety behaviour to the target of always using that behaviour. Once these 
behaviours increase there will be a reflection seen in incidents and accidents onsite. 
 
“Microlearning has made safety a core value of the organization, rather than solely focus on 
production output.” 
- Leader  
 
2% 4%
21% 32% 40%
8% 0% 8%
34%
58%
0%
50%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Coaching
Pre Post
0% 0%
26%
45%
30%
0% 0% 8%
67%
25%
0%
50%
100%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Workload Management 
Pre Post

===== PAGE 107 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 106  
It has also been acknowledged that the organization has not been able to see and 
measure the long-term extent to which microlearning has made an impact at the time of 
this evaluation due to the closure of Signal Gold. Although, coaches expressed that 
microlearning has been an effective tool for informing and reminding employees of 
safety behaviours on-the-job.   
 
5.2.2 Enhanced communication 
Microlearning was successful in developing communication skills across the  
organization. The trainings helped both employees and coaches develop skills to better 
communicate with one another. The communication microlearning was aligned with the 
national occupational standards for Minerals Processing Operator where MiHR 
awarded 69 communication micro credentials to the participants. 
 
“Overall, you can tell the culture around health and safety has turned around. There is 
higher willingness to ask questions and better communication on the floor.” 
- Leader  
 
Through engagement with o ther employees and coaches, microlearning has helped 
employees to feel more comfortable communicating in the workplace, leading to less 
hesitation about bringing up safety concerns to other employees or supervisors.  
 
While communication was a skill that w as integrated across microlearning modules, 
Figure 4 exemplifies that upon completion of microlearning 67% of employees use 
closed-loop communication, known as a three-step process – state the message, listener 
tells their version, confirms when it is correct.  
 
Figure 4: Please read each one carefully and then rate where you think your current 
behaviours are on a scale from 1-5. (1 - you never do this behaviour to 5 - you always take 
part in this behaviour) 
 
 
 
Similarly, coaches and employees have recognized that microlearning has helped to 
generate conversation, made employees more comfortable to speak up, and 
emphasized a preventative approach to workplace health and safety in the organization.  
 
  
0%
9%
37% 43%
11%
0% 0%
33% 33% 34%
0%
20%
40%
60%
Never Almost Never Sometimes Almost Always Always
Closed Loop Communication 
Pre Post

===== PAGE 108 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 107  
5.2.3 Increased incident reporting  
Signal Gold continues to diligently report on incidents that occur across the organization. 
Refer to Table 4 and 5 below for the annual breakout of incident type. Stats are presented 
year over year from January to May to allow comparison over the period which 
microlearning took place at Signal Gold.  
 
The outcomes of microlearning are not as visible through the organization health and 
safety statistics. Rather, the impact of microlearning was evident through the 
organizational culture and approach to health and safety in the workplace, where 
participants were able to increase their individual behavioural competencies.  
 
Table 4 and 5 outline the Signal Gold incident and injury statistics.  As previously 
mentioned, organiza tional change and a lack of buy into microlearning at the 
management level affected the outcomes of the program on the Signal Gold 
organization.  
 
Table 4: Incident summary YoY % (January-May) change   
2019 2020 2021 2022 YoY % 
Fire 1 0 3 0 - 
Motor Vehicle 2 6 0 0 - 
Injury 7 4 3 5 66% 
Near Miss 6 8 28 11 -60% 
Property Damage  10 4 10 6 -40% 
Motor Vehicle  2 6 0 0 - 
Total Incidents 28 28 44 22 -50% 
 
Table 5: Injury summary YoY % change   
2019 2020 2021 2022 YoY % 
Medical Aid 3 3 0 1 100% 
First Aid 4 1 3 4 33% 
Total Injuries 7 4 3 5 40% 
 
Rather, the impact of microlearning was noted through a swift in the organization’s 
culture and approach to health and safety in the workplace.  
 
5.2.4 Improved employee moral  
Microlearning was successful in providing employees and coaches with the opport unity 
for engagement and collaboration, both during training sessions and throughout the 
workday. The training videos were helpful in generating and guiding discussion between 
employees and coaches. 
 
In addition to providing the organization with a safety -based training program, 
employees and coaches acknowledged that microlearning was beneficial for the culture 
of the organization. Employees appreciate the efforts being put towards workplace 

===== PAGE 109 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 108  
health and safety in the organization, and it has given them the confidence to speak up if 
something is not right for the benefit of themselves and others.  
 
“Microlearning definitely helped to improve the culture around health and safety. 
Employees are now more aware of incidents that could happen and are taking a proactive 
approach in their jobs.” 
- Leader 
 
Coaches and leaders echoed that employees have demonstrated more of an eye for 
workplace health and safety and are working with each other to foster a safe working 
environment for everyone.  
 
6.0 RECOMMENDATIONS   
 
As Training Works looks to implement microlearning across other organizations, it is 
important to leverage the feedback from this pilot phase to enhance the relevance and 
effectiveness of the program. Looking forward, it is recommended to consider the 
following: 
 
Getting buy-in at the management level to ensure successful delivery  
The pilot phase of microlearning at Signal Gold organization reinforces the need for buy 
in and support of the program at all levels of the organization. Leaders and mentors were 
less receptive to the microlearning program because of the upcoming closure of Signal 
Gold. They weren’t able to envision the long -term effects on the organization which 
prevented them from getting onboard.  
 
“I felt like I was out there on my own in how to deliver the microlearning program.”  
Mentor 
 
Implement microlearning specific training sessions 
The delivery model of microlearning was found to be limiting to both employees and 
coaches. Daily trainings were deemed as too frequent, and there was limite d time to 
show and discuss the videos in daily toolbox talks.  
 
While consistent health and safety trainings are important, there is opportunity to make 
for a better experience for employees and coaches. It is recommended to alter the 
frequency of training s and increase the amount of time set allotted for microlearning 
trainings to allow for discussion. For example, one five minute video at the beginning of 
the week followed up by guided discussions and other forms of microlearning on the 
same topic throughout the week to allow for continued learning and communication 
around the safety topic. The safety behaviour of focus for the rotation would continue to 
be discussed in toolbox talks along with usual daily operational topics. 
 

===== PAGE 110 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 109  
Communicate the intent of microlearning to level set employee 
expectations  
Microlearning is best suited and leveraged as daily reminders to commute knowledge 
into behaviour as opposed to teaching brand new skills. Ensuring that employees 
understand the intent and outcomes of the micr olearning model will help with learner 
engagement moving forwards. The microlearning delivery model was found to be 
effective, it didn’t capture the interest of more experienced employees.  While the model 
keeps safety top- of-mind, it didn’t deliver on experienced employee’s expectations of 
learning about new safety topics or behaviours they can apply.  
 
Coaches also highlighted that microlearning was less relevant to employees with 
experience in the industry.  
 
Therefore, it is recommended to target employees new to the industry or with limited 
experience (e.g., summer students, new hires, etc.) using a behaviour -based workplace 
health and safety training model. For more experienced employees, it is recommended 
to investigate engagement and learning needs, and set expectations for microlearning 
serving as a safety reminder/refresher.  
 
Find new ways to engage more experienced workers  
While microlearning provided more experienced employees with limited new learnings, 
it did serve as a reminder to the importa nce of behavioural skills in creating a safe 
workplace. 
 
Therefore, it is important to investigate ways to engage more experienced workers, as a 
behaviour-based training remains highly important and relevant to the industry. With 
many incidents and injurie s occurring as a result of an experienced worker becoming 
complacent, alternative delivery models may pique their interest and heighten 
engagement with this audience.  
 
Use human actors/actresses to elevate professionalism 
While it didn’t take away from the learnings of microlearning, the use of cartoons 
impeded on appeal and relevance. Mentors and coaches noted that some employees 
were less attentive to the videos because of the “childish” animation. 
 
Consequently, it is recommended to utilize human actors/actresses in the microlearning 
training videos to elevate professionalism and broaden the appeal for industrial works of 
all ages and skill levels.   
 
Include job-specific examples to enhance relevance    
As not all microlearning training videos are relevant to all positions, and some employees 
lacked the ability to make the connection between the competencies covered in the 
training and their day-to-day job in mining. 
 

===== PAGE 111 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 110  
To further the impact of microle arning, it is recommended to include more job -specific 
examples in the training videos and follow- up discussions. This would help to 
demonstrate how the behaviours covered in microlearning can be applied in the 
workplace as safety prevention tactics. 
 
While the above recommendations would further the effectiveness of microlearning, it 
was acknowledged to be impactful in its pilot phase with the organization and is seen as 
a scalable program within and beyond the mining industry.  
 
7.0 CONCLUSION 
 
Microlearning was designed ensure that mining employees receive the right training to 
do their job on a continuous basis. These employees are limited in the amount of time 
they can spend away to receive training, the development of this microlearning program 
and delivery model was to combat this constraint while ensuring knowledge transfer and 
behavioural change.  
 
Overall, the pilot phase of microlearning completed at Signal Gold was found to be 
successful in achieving the outputs and immediate outcomes outlined in the Theory of 
Change. By taking the recommendations provided into consideration, there is 
opportunity to optimize and enhance the effectiveness of microlearning to scale it across 
other organizations.  
 
  

===== PAGE 112 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 111  
APPENDIX A: KEY INFORMANT 
INTERVIEW DISCUSSION GUIDE  
 
Hello, 
 
My name is [NAME], and I work for [COMPANY]. Thank you for taking the time to speak 
to me today.  
 
The discussion we will have today is for research and evaluation purposes only; there are 
no right or wrong answers. So, I want you to speak freely, share whatever is on your mind 
and share your personal perspective!  
 
To help me document the research, I will be recording our conversation; however, I want 
to assure you that everything you say during this conversation is strictly anonymous. 
Your name and any identifying information about you will not be shared outside of the 
research team.  
 
Our discussion today will last approximately [TIME] minutes.  
 
Do you have any questions before we begin? I will now turn on the recording 
 
Participants  
 
1. To start off, tell me a little about yourself  – your job title, description, length of time 
with the company, years of experience, and some of your experience before joining.  
 
Note: Fill in below 
 
Name: 
Job title: 
Job description: 
Demographic information: 
-Age 
-Gender 
-Location/Company  
-Years of experience in current position 
-Years of experience in previous positions within industry 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 113 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 112  
Relevance & Design and Delivery  
2. What were you hoping to learn in this program?  
a. Did you achieve these goals? 
b. If not, what would have helped you?  
 
 
3. How did the program relate to your role within the organization? 
a. How will you apply the skills learned to stay safe at work? 
b. Thinking of the topics covered, what was the most relevant for you? Least 
relevant? 
c. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that you 
would have liked to learn about?  
 
 
4. Please share with me your level of satisfaction with the model  of the program (5 
minutes of training per day while on shift and receive feedback and support from 
coaches)– very satisfied, somewhat satisfied, not satisfied.  
a. Tell me why. 
b. Is there anything you would change in the delivery of the program?  
 
Outcomes  
 
5. How has the microlearning program helped you in your role at the organization?  
a. Has it changed the way you do your job? Or how you approach workplace 
safety?  
b. How do you think the program has helped your organization overall? Probe on 
incidents, near misses, rules/educational resources.  
 
6. What was the most impactful thing you learned in this program?  
a. How will it help you in your job?  
 
7. Moving forward, are there any c hanges you would like to see made to the 
microlearning program? 
 
Thank you for your time today. That is all of my questions. Do you have any other 
thoughts, comments or suggestions before we wrap up today?  
 
Thanks again and have a great day!   
 
Coaches 
 
8. To start off, tell me a little about yourself – your job title, description, length of time 
with the company, and some of your experience. 
 
Note: Fill in below 
 

===== PAGE 114 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 113  
Name: 
Job title: 
Job description: 
 
Relevance & Design and Delivery  
9. What was your organization hoping to get out of this program?  
a. Did the organization achieve these goals? 
b. If not, what would have helped to meet these goals? 
 
10. Was the program relevant to your organization’s needs? 
a. Thinking of the topics covered, what was the most relevant to your 
organization? Least relevant? 
b. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that 
would have been useful?  
 
11. Please share with me your level of satisfaction with the model of the program (5 
minutes of training per day while on shift and receive feedback and support from 
coaches)– very satisfied, somewhat satisfied, not satisfied.  
a. Tell me why. 
b. Is there anything you would change in the delivery of the program?  
 
Outcomes  
 
12. How has the microlearning program helped your organization?  
a. Has it changed the approach to workplace safety?  
b. How do you think the program has had an impact on the organization? 
Probe on incidents, near misses, rules/educational resources.  
c. Have you noticed any changes in the culture of the organization? Probe on 
observed impacts (e.g., more coach/participant interactions occurring). 
 
13. What is your biggest takeaway from the program?  
a. How will the organization implement these safety skills and practices 
moving forward? 
 
 
14. Are there any changes you would like to see made to the microlearning program? 
 
 
Thank you for your time today. That is all of my questions. Do you have any other 
thoughts, comments or suggestions before we wrap up today?  
 
Thanks again and have a great day!   
 
Leaders 
 

===== PAGE 115 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 114  
14. To start off, tell me a little about yourself – your job title, description, length of time 
with the company, and some of your experience. 
 
Note: Fill in below 
 
Name: 
Job title: 
Job description: 
 
Relevance & Design and Delivery  
 
15. What was your organization hoping to get out of this program?  
a. Did the organization achieve these goals? 
b. If not, what would have helped to meet these goals? 
 
16. Was the program relevant to your organization’s needs? 
a. Thinking of the topics covered, what was the most relevant to your 
organization? Least relevant? 
b. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that 
would have been useful?  
 
17. Please share with me your level of satisfaction with the model of the program (5 
minutes of training per day while on shift and receive feedback and support from 
coaches)– very satisfied, somewhat satisfied, not satisfied.  
a. Tell me why. 
b. Is there anything you would change in the delivery of the program?  
 
18. As a Leader is t here anything that could have been done to support you better in 
implementing this program within your organization? (more training, continuous 
support etc.) 
 
19. Have you noticed a difference in how your organization views safety? 
 
20. What have been the biggest challenges in implementing this program? 
 
21. How would you address these challenges moving forward? 
 
22. Would you invest in a program like this in the future? 
23. If not, why? 
 
Outcomes  
 
24. How has the microlearning program helped your organization?  
a. Has it changed the approach to workplace safety and how you think about 
it.  

===== PAGE 116 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 115  
b. How do you think the program has had an impact on the organization? 
Probe on incidents, near misses, rules/educational resources. Safety 
culture and coaching culture 
 
25. What is your biggest takeaway from the program?  
a. How will the organization implement these safety skills and practices 
moving forward? 
 
26. Are there any changes you would like to see made to the microlearning program?  
 
Thank you for your time today. That is all of my questions. Do you have any other 
thoughts, comments or suggestions before we wrap up today?  
 
Thanks again and have a great day!   
 
  

===== PAGE 117 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 116  
APPENDIX B: SURVEY RESULTS  
Pre-Survey (N=47) 
 
1. Were you given enough details about the microlearning program that you feel 
comfortable to begin? 
 Yes No 
Anaconda (N=47) 79%(37) 21%(10) 
 
2. What are you hoping to learn from this microlearning program?  
• Safety 
• Communication 
• Increase efficiency on the job 
• Get others thinking more about their safety behaviour  
• Not sure   
 
3. On a scale from 1- 5, from what you know about this microlearning program, do 
you feel this program will relate to your role within the organization?  
• SCALE 1 (not at all) - 5 (very) 
 Average 
Anaconda (N=47) 3 
 
• Why did you give this rating?  
Anaconda 
Not sure what exactly it will be used for but feel the potential could be there. 
Safety is a primary concern for my job. 
Safety is always number 1. Learning anything that will improve my position to improve 
safety is a priority. 
 
 
 
 
4. How do you think the skills you learn through this program will help you stay safe 
at work? 
Anaconda 
Hopefully the program will help me consider safety more often in daily activities. 
By illustrating how knowing these skills can protect me before, during and after my shifts. 
By giving practical insight into working safe for my job 
 
5. For this program you will complete about 5 minutes of training per day while on 
shift and receive feedback and support from coaches. How would you rate your 
satisfaction with this training model? 

===== PAGE 118 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 117  
 Not 
Satisfied Somewhat Satisfied Very Satisfied  
Anaconda (N=44) -  45% (20) 55%(24) 
 
• Why did you give this rating? Would you prefer to see a different model? If so, what 
would you prefer? 
Anaconda  
I think 5 min learning spots will help with everyday reminders to keep us safe while 
working.   
I'm unsure how the model will work. I can't give feedback until I see the impacts of the 
model. 
Safety is very important, and daily reflections aid in showing how safety training benefits 
everyone. 
I would prefer to do more training in one day vs a bit every day however, I understand that 
this is not possible for everyone.  
6. Below is a list of behavioural topics that will be covered  during the program. 
Please read  each one carefully and then rate where you think your current 
behaviours are on a scale from 1 (you never do this behaviour) to 5 (you always 
take part in this behaviour).  
 
 
Anaconda Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Mindfulness: 
Mindfulness is being 
present in the 
moment. You think 
about the outcomes of 
your actions before 
you finish the task. You 
think about the impact 
of your words before 
you say them. 
- 2%(1) 21%(10) 49%(23) 
 
 
28%(13) 
Vigilance: Vigilance 
means to keep your 
focus and stay alert 
while doing tasks at 
work. To be safe at 
work you must always 
keep an eye on the 
people, the machines, 
and your work site. 
- - 13%(6) 45%(21) 
 
 
43%(20) 
Active Listening: You 
listen to understand 
the speaker’s message. 
- - 17% (8) 53%(25) 30%(14) 

===== PAGE 119 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 118  
Anaconda Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Effective Inquiry: You 
ask questions with 
purpose. 
- 2%(1) 17%(8) 51%(24) 30%(14) 
Closed Loop 
Communication: You 
use a 3 -step process 
when you speak. You 
state the message, you 
wait for the listener to 
tell you their version of 
the message and you 
confirm when they are 
correct. 
- 9%(4) 37%(17) 43%(20) 11%(5) 
Assertiveness: You 
make sure your 
message is heard an d 
addressed. 
- - 34%(16) 47% (22) 19%(9) 
Strategic Decision 
Making: You use a 5 -
step process to decide. 
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
3.  Consider your 
options 
4. Decide on a path 
forward 
5.  Evaluate your 
decision 
- 4%(2) 22%(10) 50% (23) 24% (11) 
Team Building:  You 
are a part of a team 
working towards a 
goal. To reach the goal 
your team works well 
together and continue 
to improve and learn. 
2%(1) 2%(1) 11%(5) 40% (19) 
 
 
45% (21) 
Workload 
Management: You 
understand how to 
manage your tasks 
with the team and goal 
in mind. If you are a 
manager or supervisor 
you are able to assign 
tasks to individuals 
- - 26%(12) 45%(21) 30% (14) 

===== PAGE 120 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 119  
Anaconda Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
based on their role in 
the company and skill 
level. 
Coaching: Coaching is 
already a big part of 
day-to-day tasks at 
your company. By 
coaching others, you 
are sharing your know-
how and skills. You 
help members of your 
team to become safe in 
the workplace. 
2%(1) 4%(2) 21%(10) 32% (15) 40%(19) 
 
7. Thinking of the topics you just reviewed and your job position, what are you 
looking forward to the most over the course of your program? 
Anaconda 
I look forward to mitigating risks encountered in day to day activities. 
Seeing the safety culture, team building and problem solving, accountability, hazard 
identification improve as the program grows. 
How to communicate better with extended members of the team (not people I speak to 
daily). 
8. What are you looking forward to the least?. 
Anaconda 
Trying to squeeze in sessions on busy days. 
Possibly having to deal with employees that may resist some change. 
Addressing any individuals who may not want to get on board with this program. 
9. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that you would 
like to learn about during this program? If so, please list them below. 
Anaconda 
Incident investigation and root cause analysis. 
How to communicate better with all types of people. 
How to work safe when overwhelmed by workload 
10. Gender  
Anaconda N=46 % (N) 
Female  22% (10) 
Male 70% (32) 
Prefer not to answer 9% (4) 
I prefer to identify as ____ - 
 
11. How old are you?  
Anaconda % (N) 
Prefer not to answer 2% (11) 
Younger than 15 0 

===== PAGE 121 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 120  
Anaconda % (N) 
Between 15 and 29 years old  41% (19) 
Between 30 and 44 years old 30% (14) 
Between 45 and 65 years old 24% (11) 
Older than 65 (1) 
 
12. Which of the following best describes your current relationship status? (N=99) 
Anaconda % (N) 
Single 19% (9) 
In a relationship 32% (15) 
Married 34% (16) 
Divorced - 
Widowed 2% (1) 
Prefer not to answer 13% (6) 
 
13. How many members of your household, including yourself, are in each of these 
age groups?  
Anaconda (N) 
Adult 18+ (including yourself) 77 
Child age (0-17) 23 
 
14. What is the highest level of education you have completed? (N=98) 
Anaconda % (N) 
Some high school or less 2% (1) 
Graduated high school 15% (7) 
Some college or university 23% (11) 
College or university graduate 38% (18) 
Some postgraduate work - 
Completed post-graduate education 13% (6) 
Prefer not to answer 9% (4) 
 
15. Which of the following best describes your current employment status? 
Anaconda % (N) 
Employed full-time 87% (41) 
Employed part-time - 
Contractual 13% (6) 
Other (please specify): - 
 
16. Do you identify as someone with a disability?  
Anaconda % (N) 
Yes - 
No 87% (40) 
Prefer not to say 13% (6) 
 
Post-Survey (N=12) 

===== PAGE 122 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 121  
1. What have you learned so far in the microlearning program?  
Anaconda 
Most concepts I was already familiar with but some good reminders on how to deal with 
some situations.  
How to work and talk to my coworkers about safety. 
Key safety items and how to recognize hazards in my own work and others work. 
2. Has the microlearning p rogram helped to remind you of the things you should be 
watching for and doing to be safe when you begin work for the day? 
Anaconda 
It reminded me more about my surroundings 
Somewhat however it is sometimes not on the mark 
Yes (9) 
 
 
 
3. How do you think the s kills you have learned through this program so far, have 
helped you stay safe at work? 
Anaconda 
Better recognizing hazards in my own job as well as the hazards of other individuals I 
interact with on a daily basis during work. 
They remind me the best approaches to handling situations and best practices. 
It keeps safety in the forefront. 
4. For this program you will complete about 5 minutes of training per day while on shift 
and receive feedback and support from coaches. How would you rate your 
satisfaction with this training model? 
 Very 
Dissatisfied 
Somewhat 
Dissatisfied 
Neutral Somewhat 
Satisfied 
Very 
Satisfied  
Anaconda 
(N=12) - 16%(2) - 42%(5) 42%(5) 
 
• Why did you give this rating? Would you prefer to see a different model? If so, what 
would you prefer? 
Anaconda  
Looking to have a more personal approach, with some more relatable site -specific 
examples. 
I would like to see a designated time, site wide for this. The responsibility seems to fall to 
one or two people when it comes to my department and is difficult due to the workload 
and having people be available without stopping production.  
This way is great cause you can discuss it with your co-workers. 
5. Below is a list of behavioural topics that will be covered  during the program. Please 
read each one carefully and then rate where you think your current behaviours are 
on a scale from 1 (you never do this behaviour) to 5 (you always take part in this 
behaviour).  
 
 

===== PAGE 123 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 122  
Anaconda Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
Mindfulness: 
Mindfulness is being 
present in the 
moment. You think 
about the outcomes of 
your actions before 
you finish the task. You 
think about the impact 
of your words before 
you say them. 
- - 8%(1) 17%(2) 75%(9) 
Vigilance: Vigilance 
means to keep your 
focus and stay alert 
while doing tasks at 
work. To be safe at 
work you must always 
keep an eye on the 
people, the machines, 
and your work site. 
- - 8%(1) 58%(7) 33%(4) 
 
Active Listening: You 
listen to understand 
the speaker’s message. 
- - - 33%(4) 67%(8) 
Effective Inquiry: You 
ask questions with 
purpose. 
- - - 50%(6) 50%(6) 
Closed Loop 
Communication: You 
use a 3 -step process 
when you speak. You 
state the message, you 
wait for the listener to 
tell you their version of 
the message and you 
confirm when they are 
correct. 
- - 33%(4) 33%(4) 34%(4) 
Assertiveness: You 
make sure your 
message is heard and 
addressed. 
- - - 50%(6) 50%(6) 
Strategic Decision 
Making: You use a 5 -
step process to decide. 
1. Identify the problem 
2. Gather information 
- - 17%(2) 50%(6) 33%(4) 

===== PAGE 124 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 123  
Anaconda Never Almost 
Never Sometimes Almost 
Always  
Always 
3.  Consider your 
options 
4. Decide on a path 
forward 
5.  Evaluate your 
decision 
Team Building: You 
are a part of a team 
working towards a 
goal. To reach the goal 
your team works well 
together and continue 
to improve and learn. 
- - - 33%(4) 67%(8) 
Workload 
Management: You 
understand how to 
manage your tasks 
with the team and goal 
in mind. If you are a 
manager or supervisor 
you are able to assign 
tasks to individuals 
based on their role in 
the company and skill 
level. 
- - 8%(1) 67%(8) 25%(3) 
Coaching: Coaching is 
already a big part of 
day-to-day tasks at 
your company. By 
coaching others, you 
are sharing your know-
how and skills. You 
help members of your 
team to become safe in 
the workplace. 
8%(1) - - 34%(4) 58%(7) 
 
6. Thinking of the topics you just reviewed and your job position, what are you looking 
forward to the most  in the remainder of your program? 
Anaconda 
People putting these ideas into practice more often. 
Continuing to build a safe and educated workforce. 
More fluid and applicable videos. 
7. What are you looking forward to the least? 
Anaconda 

===== PAGE 125 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 124  
Addressing the very few individuals who do not see the benefit of this program. 
Topics that don't apply to me. 
Cartoons and annoying narrators. 
8. Are there other topic areas related to safety practices or soft skills that you would 
like to learn about during this program? If so, please list them below. 
Anaconda 
Electrical safety for non-trade people. Cleanliness & housekeeping in the workplace. 
I wonder if having less generic safety moments/toolbox talks done by the specific roles 
would be more effective.  
Response to first aid situations and such would be a good topic. Refresher to basic steps 
like how to treat a burn or broken bone. 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Gender  
Anaconda % (N) 
Female  8% (1) 
Male 84% (10) 
Prefer not to answer - 
I prefer to identify as ____ 8% (1) 
• Non-binary  
10. How old are you?  
Anaconda % (N) 
Prefer not to answer - 
Younger than 15 - 
Between 15 and 29 years old 25% (3) 
Between 30 and 44 years old 42% (5) 
Between 45 and 65 years old 33% (4) 
Older than 65 - 
 
11. Which of the following best describes your current relationship status?  
Anaconda % (N) 
Single 16% (2) 
In a relationship 25% (3) 
Married 42% (5) 
Divorced - 
Widowed - 
Prefer not to answer 17% (2) 
 
12. How many members of your household, including yourself, are in each of these age 
groups?  
Anaconda (N) 
Adult 18+ (including yourself) Average 1.8/HH 

===== PAGE 126 =====

Microlearning in the Mining Industry Evaluation 
Page 125  
Anaconda (N) 
Child age (0-17) 1 HH – 2/HH 
 
13. What is the highest level of education you have completed?  
Anaconda % (N) 
Some high school or less 17% (2) 
Graduated high school 17% (2) 
Some college or university - 
College or university graduate 33% (4) 
Some postgraduate work - 
Completed post-graduate education 8% (1) 
Prefer not to answer 25% (3) 
 
14. Which of the following best describes your current employment status? 
Anaconda % (N) 
Employed full-time 92% (11) 
Employed part-time - 
Contractual - 
Other (please specify): - 
Prefer not to answer 8% (1) 
 
15. Do you identify as someone with a disability?  
Anaconda % (N) 
Yes - 
No 92% (11) 
Prefer not to say 8% (1) 
 
 
 